A	But inside the church the pastor stood in the pulpit, and spoke very loudly and angrily.
A	He spoke very excitedly, saying that their evil propensities would not be destroyed, nor would the fire be extinguished, and they should never find rest.
F	It was dreadful to hear all that, for the preacher spoke from his heart, and all the people in the church were terrified.
A	And the blood rose to the head of the excited criminal; he threw himself upon his comrade, and beat him with his clenced fist in the face.
F	The pastor's hand trembled; he dared not stretch it out, he did not venture to pull a hair out of the sinner's head.
H	It became a splendid flower-garden to the sick boy, and his little treasure upon earth.
H	The flower entwined itself even in his dreams- for him it bloomed, for him spread its perfume.
H	And it gladdened his eyes, and to the flower he turned, even in death, when the Lord called him.
Sa	During that time the flower has stood in the window, withered and forgotten, till at length cast out among the sweepings into the street, on the day of the lodgers' removal.
H	Then the child opened his eyes and looked into the glorious happy face of the angel, and at the same moment they found themselves in that heavenly home where all is happiness and joy.
H	Then it joined in the song of the angels, who surrounded the throne, some near, and others in a distant circle, but all equally happy.
H	They all joined in the chorus of praise, both great and small,- the good, happy child, and the poor field-flower, that once lay withered and cast away on a heap of rubbish in a narrow, dark street.
Sa	Then he would cry, but what nobody knows nobody cares for; so he would cry till he was tired, and then fall asleep; and while we are asleep we can feel neither hunger nor thirst.
H	Her beautiful, noble child had been a dear angel, and possessed the kindest heart; he had loved her so much, and she had loved him in return; they had kissed and loved each other, and the boy had been her joy, her second life.
Sa	Anne Lisbeth went forth from the castle into the public road, feeling mournful and sad; he whom she had nursed day and night, and even now carried about in her dreams, had been cold and strange, and had not a word or thought respecting her.
Sa	She felt very low-spirited, because her count-child had shown no inclination to speak to her who loved him so well, and who had travelled so far to see him.
F	Only tangled grass, and yet she was frightened at it.
F	As these thoughts passed through her mind, fear gave speed to her feet, so that she walked faster and faster.
F	Fear came upon her as if a cold, clammy hand had been laid upon her heart, so that she almost fainted.
F	It was the first hour of her awakening, full of anguish and horror.
F	Superstition made her alternately shudder with cold or burn with the heat of fever.
F	"A grave! dig me a grave!" still sounded in her ears; she was fearful that the cock might crow, and the first red streak appear in the east, before she had finished her work; and then she would be lost.
H	"Now I am in the house of God," she said, "and in that house we are happy."
Su	"A difference!" cried the sunbeam, as he kissed the blooming apple-branch, and then kissed the yellow dandelion out in the fields.
H	There came presently across the fields a whole group of children, the youngest of whom was so small that it had to be carried by the others; and when he was seated on the grass, among the yellow flowers, he laughed aloud with joy, kicked out his little legs, rolled about, plucked the yellow flowers, and kissed them in childlike innocence.
H	Mr. Alfred again spoke of Italy, and of the glorious colors in Italian scenery; the purple hills, the deep blue of the Mediterranean, the azure of southern skies, whose brightness and glory could only be surpassed in the north by the deep-blue eyes of a maiden; and he said this with a peculiar intonation; but she who should have understood his meaning looked quite unconscious of it, which also was charming.
H	The young man felt the truth of the proverb, "Still waters run deep:" and his heart had sunk into their depths.
Su	"Good heavens!" she exclaimed.
Su	He placed a pencil sketch on the table; and mamma, who had been over-powered with the appearance of the colored plates, threw a glance at the pale drawing and cried in astonishment, "What, did you see it throw up white fire?"
H	The betrothed pair were very happy, and the mother was happy too.
A	"There is no real pleasure in travelling," said mamma; "to tell the truth, it's very wearisome; I beg pardon for saying so.
A	I was soon very tired of it, although I had my children with me; and, besides, it's very expensive work travelling, very expensive.
A	And all those galleries one is expected to see, and the quantity of things you are obliged to run after!
A	It must be done, for very shame; you are sure to be asked when you come back if you have seen everything, and will most likely be told that you've omitted to see what was best worth seeing of all.
A	I got tired at last of those endless Madonnas; I began to think I was turning into a Madonna myself."
A	"Yes, indeed," she replied, "no such a thing as a respectable meat soup- their cookery is miserable stuff."
Sa	Alfred wept, and mamma wept, and they both wore mourning.
Sa	She had also to experience another grief in seeing Alfred marry again, marry Sophy, who was nothing at all to look at.
A	"He's gone to the very extreme," said mamma-in-law; "he has gone from the most beautiful to the ugliest, and he has forgotten his first wife.
H	"'Pygmalion loved his Galatea,' was in the song they sung at my first wedding," said Alfred; "I once fell in love with a beautiful statue, which awoke to life in my arms; but the kindred soul, which is a gift from heaven, the angel who can feel and sympathize with and elevate us, I have not found and won till now.
Su	"Understand!
H	"How beautiful this world is!" said the caterpillar.
H	"The sun is so warm, I quite enjoy it.
H	"Wonderful weather this," cried one of them, "and so refreshing.
H	What happiness for a mother!"
H	How charming this is for a mother, is it not Mr. Beetle?" for she knew the stranger by his horny coat.
H	"Certainly," said the beetle, "I shall be most happy; I have been exposed to the rain, and have had to lie upon linen, and cleanliness is a thing that greatly exhausts me; I have also pains in one of my wings from standing in the draught under a piece of broken crockery.
H	The mother gave them her blessing, and all the other beetles cried "hurrah."
A	"Fie on the villain that forsook her!"
H	"What a wonderful quantity of plants," cried the beetle; "how good they will taste when they are decayed!
A	"You speak without knowing the facts," replied the beetle; "don't you see that I am a prisoner?"
A	This vexes me more than anything.
H	"Oh, what a splendour!"
H	And they ran towards each other and took one another's hand, in the great cathedral of nature and poesy, and above them sounded the invisible holy bell; happy spirits surrounded them, singing hallelujahs and rejoicing.
A	Let her be expelled from the congregation and the Church.
A	"Thou child of perdition, I will yet carry out my purpose!" cried the Bishop of Borglum.
H	He seized her hand, he embraced her, and the mother wept.
H	"Safe return, and a wedding this day next year," he cried; and when the glasses were empty he took the bottle, raised it on high, and said, "Thou hast been present here on the happiest day of my life; thou shalt never be used by others!"
H	Those were happy days, and the bottle would sing when rubbed with a cork, and it was called a great lark," "Peter Jensen's lark."
H	For very joy, it felt ready to jump out of people's hands, and scarcely noticed that its cork had been drawn, and its contents emptied out, till it found itself carried to a cellar, to be left there and forgotten.
H	"There's no place like home, even if it's a cellar."
H	The rabbit was quite excited because he knew that he was to be taken up, and let down again in a parachute.
H	Then they hung it in the cage of the little bird, who sang and twittered more merrily than ever.
A	But the buckwheat spread itself out with pride, and said, "Stupid tree; he is so old that grass grows out of his body."
F	"Bend your head as we do," cried the ears of corn; "the angel of the storm is coming; his wings spread from the sky above to the earth beneath.
F	He will strike you down before you can cry for mercy."
Sa	The branches of the old willow-tree rustled in the wind, and large water-drops fell from his green leaves as if the old willow were weeping.
A	But Marguerite did not answer him; she was offended that he should call her a woman when she was only a girl; and there is a great difference.
H	The pea-blossom pleased him most of all; she was white and red, graceful and slender, and belonged to those domestic maidens who have a pretty appearance, and can yet be useful in the kitchen.
Su	"Oh, indeed; and you will be like her some day," said he; and he flew away directly, for he felt quite shocked.
H	"I will take her," said the butterfly; and he made her an offer.
Sa	"It is not very pleasant, certainly; I should imagine it is something like being married; for here I am stuck fast."
Su	As if these things were of any consequence!
Su	Who would trouble themselves about such trifles? especially at a comedy, where every one is expected to be amused.
Sa	The sisters mourned as young hearts can mourn, and were especially grieved at the sight of their parents' sorrow.
Sa	The father's heart was bowed down, but the mother sunk completely under the deep grief.
Sa	She thought God could not take her darling little one from her; and when it did happen notwithstanding her hopes and her belief, and there could be no more doubt on the subject, she said in her feverish agony, "God does not know it.
Sa	But these doubts were no support to her, nothing on which she could rest, and she sunk into the fathomless depths of despair.
Sa	The tears of her husband fell on her forehead, but she took no notice of him; her thoughts were with her dead child; her whole existence seemed wrapped up in the remembrances of the little one and of every innocent word it had uttered.
Sa	When she awoke, and wanted to see her child, the husband, with tears, said, "We have closed the coffin; it was necessary to do so."
Sa	"When God is so hard to me, how can I expect men to be better?" she said with groans and tears.
Sa	With tearful eyes and mournful glances, the sorrowing daughters and the afflicted husband looked upon her who would not hear their words of comfort; and, indeed, what comforting words could they speak, when they were themselves so full of grief?
Sa	As she had sat by his little cot, so now she sat by his grave; and here she could weep freely, and her tears fell upon it.
A	All this was new and interesting; that is, for the first time, but afterwards, as the weather-cock found out, they repeated themselves and always told the same stories, and that's very tedious, and there was no one with whom one could associate, for one and all were stale and small-minded.
A	"The world is no good!" he said.
A	"Everything in it is so stupid."
A	"Everything is very stupid," the weather-cock said to himself.
A	Everything is so stupid!
A	I don't want to sit here any longer."
H	How rich I am!"
H	Its joy was so great that it did not know what to think.
H	The little bird hopped round it and sang, "How beautifully soft the grass is, and what a lovely little flower with its golden heart and silver dress is growing here."
H	How happy the daisy was!
Su	"Ugh!" sighed the daisy, "that is terrible; now they are done for."
Sa	Indeed the poor bird had good reason to be sad, for it had been caught and put into a cage close by the open window.
Sa	The poor lark was most unhappy as a prisoner in a cage.
Sa	The poor bird was lamenting its lost liberty, and beating its wings against the wires; and the little daisy could not speak or utter a consoling word, much as it would have liked to do so.
Sa	Alas! you only remind me of what I have lost."
Sa	The evening came, and nobody appeared to bring the poor bird a drop of water; it opened its beautiful wings, and fluttered about in its anguish; a faint and mournful "Tweet, tweet," was all it could utter, then it bent its little head towards the flower, and its heart broke for want and longing.
Sa	The flower could not, as on the previous evening, fold up its petals and sleep; it dropped sorrowfully.
Sa	The boys only came the next morning; when they saw the dead bird, they began to cry bitterly, dug a nice grave for it, and adorned it with flowers.
H	And there she sat as proudly as if she were in a state coach, and looked all around her.
Sa	Had I still my old eye, which was broken off, I believe I should weep; but no, I would not do that, it is not genteel to cry."
Su	"Good heavens, how it crushes!" said the darning-needle.
H	"Thus the small service done to the old man was richly rewarded!" said Meta Mogen.
H	In the garden grow roses; the mistress of the house is herself the finest rose petal, she beams with joy, the joy of good deeds: however, not done in the wide world, but in her heart, and what is preserved there is not forgotten.
H	The paralysed girl sits in the warm sunshine and can see the wood and the lake; the world had become so large, so beautiful, and only through a single word from the kind mistress of the mansion.
H	"The word was so easy, the deed so small," she said, "the joy it afforded me was infinitely great and sweet!"
Sa	A week has passed; this morning his death was in the newspaper, that is the reason of the girl's mourning!
Sa	The black bow signifies mourning, the girl's face points to the same in a still higher degree; it is preserved in the heart and will never be forgotten.
A	And they hacked away at him, and they pulled at him, and ate him up, because of the little bruise.
Su	"It's a drop of puddle water!" said Kribble-Krabble.
Su	I declare you have put on your Sunday clothes!"
Su	"My word!
H	Here I come!" shouted Jack the Dullard, and he sang till his voice echoed far and wide.
H	"Hurrah! it is quite famous."
H	"Oh," said Jack the Dullard, "I can hardly tell you.
A	Then the Princess would say, "He is of no use!
A	Away with him out of the hall!"
A	"He is of no use!" said the Princess.
A	"Away with him!"
A	"Away with him!"
H	"Ah, that's lucky!" exclaimed Jack the Dullard, "for I suppose you'll let me roast my crow at the same time?"
H	"With the greatest pleasure," said the Princess.
H	"I like that!" said the Princess.
H	But she only said this to frighten Jack the Dullard; and the clerks gave a great crow of delight, and each one spurted a blot out of his pen on to the floor.
Sa	"They say that he was once an energetic young man, that he studied the dead languages, and sang and even composed many songs; then something had happened to him, and in consequence of this he gave himself up to drink, body and mind.
Sa	But when we succeeded in bringing him home, and prevailed upon him to open the book with the dried-up plants in it, he would sometimes sit for a whole day looking at this or that plant, while frequently the tears rolled over his cheeks.
Sa	And then they kissed each other, and the girl wept, and gave him a rose; but before she did so, she pressed a kiss upon it so fervently that the flower opened.
Sa	Oh, what bitter tears she shed! and she could not open her heart to any one for relief.
Sa	Oh, how she wept and prayed that she also might die!
Sa	Every morning he flew to the window of the poor girl, and always found her weeping by the flower pot.
Sa	The bitter tears fell upon the jasmine twig, and each day, as she became paler and paler, the sprig appeared to grow greener and fresher.
A	"What a buzzing and a rumbling there is in the elfin hill," said one of the lizards; "I have not been able to close my eyes for two nights on account of the noise; I might just as well have had the toothache, for that always keeps me awake."
A	"Feet off the table-cloth!" said the old goblin.
A	"Stop!" cried the old goblin," is that the only house-keeping they can perform?
Su	"Ho! ho!" said the old goblin, "is that what she means?
H	So she took him by the wrist, and he laughed till he nearly choked; and when she came to the fourth finger, there was a gold ring on it, as if it knew there was to be a betrothal.
H	How merry we shall be!
H	But the lizards continued to run up and down the riven tree; and one said to the other, "Oh, how much I was pleased with the old goblin!"
Su	"Heaven preserve us!" he thought, and opened his eyes wide, "I cannot see anything at all," but he did not say so.
H	"We are pleased to hear that," said the two weavers, and described to him the colours and explained the curious pattern.
Su	"Good heavens! listen to the voice of an innocent child," said the father, and one whispered to the other what the child had said.
Sa	FAR down in the forest, where the warm sun and the fresh air made a sweet resting-place, grew a pretty little fir-tree; and yet it was not happy, it wished so much to be tall like its companions- the pines and firs which grew around it.
Sa	As the axe cut through the stem, and divided the pith, the tree fell with a groan to the earth, conscious of pain and faintness, and forgetting all its anticipations of happiness, in sorrow at leaving its home in the forest.
F	How the fir-tree trembled!
H	It trembled so with joy in all its branches, that one of the candles fell among the green leaves and burnt some of them.
Su	"Help! help!" exclaimed the young ladies, but there was no danger, for they quickly extinguished the fire.
H	For a moment the little ones stood silent with astonishment, and then they shouted for joy, till the room rang, and they danced merrily round the tree, while one present after another was taken from it.
H	And then the tree related the whole story; he could remember every single word, and the little mice was so delighted with it, that they were ready to jump to the top of the tree.
H	"Now life is beginning again," said the tree, rejoicing in the sunshine and fresh air.
Sa	The pieces were placed in a fire under the copper, and they quickly blazed up brightly, while the tree sighed so deeply that each sigh was like a pistol-shot.
H	How fortunate I am; it makes me so happy, it is such a pleasant thing to know that something can be made of me.
H	How the sunshine cheers me, and how sweet and refreshing is the rain; my happiness overpowers me, no one in the world can feel happier than I am."
H	I am the happiest of all creatures."
Su	Well, one day some people came, who took hold of the flax, and pulled it up by the roots; this was painful; then it was laid in water as if they intended to drown it; and, after that, placed near a fire as if it were to be roasted; all this was very shocking.
H	"Well, this is quite wonderful; I could not have believed that I should be so favored by fortune.
H	How wonderful it is, that after all I have suffered, I am made something of at last; I am the luckiest person in the world- so strong and fine; and how white, and what a length!
H	I cannot be happier than I am now."
H	This was my destiny; it is quite a blessing.
H	Now I shall be of some use in the world, as everyone ought to be; it is the only way to be happy.
H	I am happier than ever."
Su	"Ugh," cried the paper, as it burst into a bright flame; "ugh."
H	Whenever the sun shone, we felt his warm rays, and the little birds would relate stories to us as they sung.
H	"'That is quite true,' said the water-bucket; and he made a spring with joy, and splashed some water on the floor.
H	"The plates rattled with pleasure, and the carpet-broom brought some green parsley out of the dust-hole and crowned the saucepan, for he knew it would vex the others; and he thought, 'If I crown him to-day he will crown me to-morrow.'
H	The street boys stood on tiptoe and shouted "hurrah," and whistled between their fingers; altogether it was a very splendid affair.
A	Then I would clench my fist, and cry, "We will kill these Turks!"
Sa	I saw my poor dead father, and cried till I fell asleep.
Sa	"Sorry!" he exclaimed, and his voice was troubled with a grief as deep as my own.
A	But the goblin felt very angry that any man should venture to say such things to a huckster who was a householder and sold the best butter.
H	"My golden treasure, my riches, my sunshine!" said the mother; and she kissed the shining locks, and it sounded like music and song in the room of the drummer; and there was joy, and life, and movement.
Sa	She folded her hands, and hid her face in the cotton curtains of the bed, and wept.
H	They laughed and they wept; and Peter embraced the old Fire-drum.
Su	"Good Heaven! what's the matter with you?" asked his mother.
Sa	"Nothing, nothing; only leave me to myself," he answered but the tears were running down his cheeks.
Sa	"My sweet child, my golden treasure!" cried the mother, and she wept; but the Fire-drum sang, not out loud, but inwardly.
H	His eyes were as clear and his face was as radiant as sunshine; and he held his mother in his arms, and she kissed his mouth, and wept as blissfully as any one can weep for joy; and he nodded at every old piece of furniture in the room, at the cupboard with the tea-cups, and at the flower-vase.
Su	The counsellor stared with astonishment as he beheld a most strange procession pass before him.
Su	"Good gracious!" he exclaimed; "what in the world has happened to the bishop? what can he be thinking about?"
A	"I don't understand your outlandish talk," he cried at last, angrily turning his back upon them.
Su	"Goodness me! where am I?" said he.
Su	It bewildered him as he thought of it.
H	"Yes, this is East Street; how beautifully bright and gay it looks!
Su	It is quite shocking that one glass of punch should have upset me like this."
Sa	The lieutenant felt this very keenly, and therefore leaned his head against the window-frame, and sighed deeply.
Su	"There goes one!" cried he.
F	He declared, when he quite recovered himself, that this had been the most dreadful night he had ever passed; not for a hundred pounds would he go through such feelings again.
Su	He started back, quite bewildered with the fright which the goloshes of Fortune had caused him.
Su	"Good gracious!" he sighed, "I must have a tendency to softening of the brain, and here it is so exceedingly hot that the blood is rushing to my head."
H	It is overpowering, and yet it is delightful."
H	As the clerk thought of all these things, and became conscious of the great change in his own feelings, he smiled, and said to himself, "I must be asleep and dreaming; and yet, if so, how wonderful for a dream to be so natural and real, and to know at the same time too that it is but a dream.
F	The canary-bird fluttered in his cage, and the parrot flapped his wings and cried, "Let us be men;" the poor clerk, in the most deadly terror, flew through the window, over the houses, and through the streets, till at length he was obliged to seek a resting-place.
Su	"Heaven preserve us!" said he; "How did I get up here and fall asleep in this way?
Su	"Dead!" cried the laundress, turning pale as death.
Su	"Is he dead?" she exclaimed.
Sa	Oh, my poor child," and she burst into tears.
Sa	And he, poor boy, wept also, as he sat alone by the river, near to and watching the damp linen.
Sa	I kissed her hand, and wept bitter tears, and I wept still more when I went to my room, and threw myself on the bed.
Sa	"Oh, my poor mother!" he cried, while the tears rolled down his cheeks.
H	She has a hymn-book with large silver clasps, in which she often reads; and in the book, between the leaves, lies a rose, quite flat and dry; it is not so pretty as the roses which are standing in the glass, and yet she smiles at it most pleasantly, and tears even come into her eyes.
H	At her side sits a young man, tall and strong; he gives her a rose and she smiles.
H	She smiled once more, and then people said she was dead.
A	Her Puggie had seated itself on the ground while she wrote, and growled; for the dog had come with her for amusement and for the sake of its health; and then the bare floor ought not to be offered to a visitor.
Sa	She had not a button- that she knew right well, and therefore she remained standing sorrowfully outside, till all the others had seen the grave and had gone away; then she sat down, held her little brown hands before her eyes, and burst into tears; this girl alone had not seen Puggie's grave.
Sa	It was a grief as great to her as any grown person can experience.
H	They lived quite retired and very happily; and as they had no children of their own, they had adopted a little common snail, which they brought up as their own child.
H	I am very glad we have such good houses, and that the little one has one of his own.
H	"There can be nothing better than we have here," said the father-snail; "I wish for nothing more."
A	You need not be in a hurry; you are always so impatient, and the youngster is getting just the same.
H	He will be the joy of our home; and we old folks have nothing else to live for.
A	"There may be black snails, no doubt," said the old snail; "black snails without houses; but they are so vulgar and conceited too.
H	And the rain fell upon the burdock-leaves, to play the drum for them, and the sun shone to paint colors on the burdock forest for them, and they were very happy; the whole family were entirely and perfectly happy.
A	"It must be a kind of garden plant," said another; and so they sneered and despised the plant as a thing from a garden.
A	"It is stupid nonsense to allow yourself to shoot out in this way; we are not here to support you."
H	With pious gratitude the girl looked upon this glorious work of God, and bent down over one of the branches, that she might examine the flower and inhale the sweet perfume.
H	Then a light broke in on her mind, and her heart expanded.
Sa	The poor swineherd took these words to heart, for they were addressed to him; he knew not that there were others who were equally ignorant.
Sa	Then the king, in his melancholy, wandered out to the spot in the wood.
H	And the old grandfather nodded again; and the more he looked at Holger Danske, the more satisfied he felt that he had carved a good image of him.
Sa	The old grandfather wiped his eyes, for he had known King Frederick, with his silvery locks and his honest blue eyes, and had lived for him, and he folded his hands and remained for some time silent.
Sa	They ran on a little farther, and then Christina fell down, and began to cry.
F	Presently the scream of an eagle sounded through the wood; it was an ugly cry, and it frightened the children; but before them, in the thickest part of the forest, grew the most beautiful blackberries, in wonderful quantities.
F	So they went on, but the road led them out of the way; no house could be seen, it grew dark, and the children were afraid.
Sa	At last they both lost themselves in the thicket; Christina began to cry, and then Ib cried too; and, after weeping and lamenting for some time, they stretched themselves down on the dry leaves and fell asleep.
Su	Great quantities of fish could be seen through the clear water, sparkling in the sun's rays; they were quite surprised when they came so suddenly upon such an unexpected sight.
H	He could not utter a word; he could only seize her hand and hold it fast in his own, but he felt too happy and glad to open his lips.
H	His eyes brightened, and the words he uttered came with hesitation from his lips, but from the deepest recesses of his heart: "Christina, if you have not become too grand, and if you can be contented to live in my mother's house as my wife, we will be married some day.
H	I can trust you, for I believe that I do love you.
Sa	At first Ib said not a word, but he became as white as the wall, and shook his head gently, and then he spoke,- "Christina must not refuse this good fortune."
Sa	Very little was said about the matter to Ib, and he did not refer to it; his mother, however, noticed that he had grown very silent and pensive.
Sa	At last a very little girl came out of one of the wretched-looking houses, and Ib asked her to tell him the way to the street he wanted; she looked up timidly at him, and began to cry bitterly.
Sa	Her youngest child, looked for in the midst of prosperity, had sunk into the grave when only a few weeks old; and at last Christina herself became sick unto death, and lay, forsaken and dying, in a miserable room, amid poverty she might have borne in her younger days, but which was now more painful to her from the luxuries to which she had lately been accustomed.
Sa	It makes me unhappy to think that I shall die, and leave this poor child," sighed she.
A	The Grasshopper only sprang half as high, but he sprang straight into the King's face, and the King declared that was horribly rude.
Sa	And then he sang his own melancholy song, and from that we have gathered this story, which they say is not true, though it's in print.
H	"Everything around me is so wonderfully bright and warm, and beautiful, that it makes me joyous."
H	You may have thousands of my days, but I have thousands of moments in which I can be merry and happy.
H	And the little creature danced and floated in the air, rejoicing in her delicate wings of gauze and velvet, rejoicing in the balmy breezes, laden with the fragrance of clover-fields and wild roses, elder-blossoms and honeysuckle, from the garden hedges, wild thyme, primroses, and mint, and the scent of all these was so strong that the perfume almost intoxicated the little fly.
H	The long and beautiful day had been so full of joy and sweet delights, that when the sun sank low it felt tired of all its happiness and enjoyment.
H	The same thing was continued through many generations of Ephemera; all of them felt equally merry and equally happy.
H	Once, but long years had intervened since then, guitars and Eolian harps had been hung on his boughs by merry travellers; now they seemed to hang there again, and he could hear their marvellous tones.
H	Then it seemed as if new life was thrilling through every fibre of root and stem and leaf, rising even to the highest branches.
H	As he grew higher and still higher, with increased strength, his topmost boughs became broader and fuller; and in proportion to his growth, so was his self-satisfaction increased, and with it arose a joyous longing to grow higher and higher, to reach even to the warm, bright sun itself.
Sa	The grand, majestic oak could not be quite happy in the midst of his enjoyment, while all the rest, both great and small, were not with him.
H	At length his longing was satisfied.
H	May beetles hummed, the bees murmured, the birds sang, each in his own way; the air was filled with the sounds of song and gladness."
H	"Why this is beautiful, too beautiful to be believed," said the oak in a joyful tone.
H	Can such happiness be imagined?"
H	Thus sounded the old Christmas carol, and every one on board the ship felt his thoughts elevated, through the song and the prayer, even as the old tree had felt lifted up in its last, its beautiful dream on that Christmas morn.
Sa	Tears of sorrow rolled down their cheeks, and fell in heavy drops on the floor, but not a word was spoken.
Sa	With silent steps, still sobbing, they left the room.
H	They looked at Little Claus ploughing with his five horses, and he was so proud that he smacked his whip, and said, "Gee-up, my five horses."
H	"I promise you I will not say it any more," said the other; but as soon as people came by, nodding to him, and wishing him "Good day," he became so pleased, and thought how grand it looked to have five horses ploughing in his field, that he cried out again, "Gee-up, all my horses!"
Sa	"Oh, now I have no horse at all, said Little Claus, weeping.
F	When she heard the farmer coming she was frightened, and begged the sexton to hide himself in a large empty chest that stood in the room.
H	So the woman was obliged to bring out the wine also, which she had hidden, and the farmer drank it till he became quite merry.
H	"I should like to see him now, while I am so merry."
F	"Will you come and help me hold it?" said the farmer, going towards the chest in which his wife had hidden the sexton, who now lay inside, very much frightened.
A	"Skins, skins!" they cried, mocking him; "yes, we'll mark your skin for you, till it is black and blue."
Sa	She had been cross, unkind, and really spiteful to him; but he was very sorry, and took the dead woman and laid her in his warm bed to see if he could bring her to life again.
A	Again and again he bawled it out, but as she did not stir he flew into a passion, and threw the glass of mead in her face; it struck her on the nose, and she fell backwards out of the cart, for she was only seated there, not tied in.
F	Great Claus got so frightened that he rushed out of the surgery, jumped into the cart, whipped up his horses, and drove home quickly.
Sa	"And I, poor fellow," said the drover, "I who am so old already, cannot get there."
H	"Yes, if I only knew a fresh one," said the old man, and nodded smilingly.
H	He was an old, old sailor, and she his old wife; they had already great-grandchildren, and were soon to celebrate their golden wedding, but they could not remember the date, and the elder-tree mother was sitting in the tree and looked as pleased as this one here.
H	I tore it open and read it; I cried and laughed at the same time, and was so happy!
H	The elder-tree smelt strongly, and the setting sun illuminated the faces of the two old people, so that they looked quite rosy; the youngest of the grandchildren danced round them, and cried merrily that there would be a feast in the evening, for they were to have hot potatoes; and the elder mother nodded in the tree and cried 'Hooray' with the others."
H	She and the boy kissed each other, and then they were of the same age and felt the same joys.
H	"You must know that as soon as the king and all the court are gone into the town, the flowers run out of the garden into the castle, and you should see how merry they are.
H	It was saying, 'You are so pretty, I like you very much.'
H	"Oh how funny!" said Ida, and she laughed.
A	He did not like the student, and would grumble when he saw him cutting out droll or amusing pictures.
A	But the lawyer did not like such jokes, and he would say as he had just said, "How can anyone put such nonsense into a child's head! what absurd fancies there are!"
A	So she took the doll out, who looked quite cross, and said not a single word, for she was angry at being turned out of her bed.
H	They did not look ill at all now, but jumped about and were very merry, yet none of them noticed little Ida.
A	All at once the wax doll which rode on the carnival rod seemed to grow larger and taller, and it turned round and said to the paper flowers, "How can you put such things in a child's head? they are all foolish fancies;" and then the doll was exactly like the lawyer with the broad brimmed hat, and looked as yellow and as cross as he did; but the paper dolls struck him on his thin legs, and he shrunk up again and became quite a little wax doll.
H	This was very amusing, and Ida could not help laughing.
Su	Then Sophy raised himself, and looked round quite astonished, "There must be a ball here to-night," said Sophy.
H	Then Sophy was very happy, and said they might keep her bed; she did not mind lying in the drawer at all.
A	"You are not kind at all," said Ida; "and yet they all danced with you."
Sa	Shivering with cold and hunger, she crept along; poor little child, she looked the picture of misery.
H	She took the little girl in her arms, and they both flew upwards in brightness and joy far above the earth, where there was neither cold nor hunger nor pain, for they were with God.
H	Here she slept at night, but during the day she amused herself on a table, where the woman had placed a plateful of water.
Sa	The tiny little creature woke very early in the morning, and began to cry bitterly when she found where she was, for she could see nothing but water on every side of the large green leaf, and no way of reaching the land.
Sa	"Croak, croak, croak," was all her son could say for himself; so the toad took up the elegant little bed, and swam away with it, leaving Tiny all alone on the green leaf, where she sat and wept.
Sa	She could not bear to think of living with the old toad, and having her ugly son for a husband.
Sa	As soon as they caught sight of her, they saw she was very pretty, and it made them very sorry to think that she must go and live with the ugly toads.
H	Tiny pleased him, and she was glad of it, for now the toad could not possibly reach her, and the country through which she sailed was beautiful, and the sun shone upon the water, till it glittered like liquid gold.
F	Oh, how frightened little Tiny felt when the cockchafer flew with her to the tree!
Sa	Then he flew down with her from the tree, and placed her on a daisy, and she wept at the thought that she was so ugly that even the cockchafers would have nothing to say to her.
Sa	She felt dreadfully cold, for her clothes were torn, and she was herself so frail and delicate, that poor little Tiny was nearly frozen to death.
H	She was very pleased with Tiny, so she said, "You are quite welcome to stay with me all the winter, if you like; but you must keep my rooms clean and neat, and tell me stories, for I shall like to hear them very much."
H	And Tiny did all the field-mouse asked her, and found herself very comfortable.
Sa	It made little Tiny very sad to see it, she did so love the little birds; all the summer they had sung and twittered for her so beautifully.
Su	Then she laid her head on the bird's breast, but she was alarmed immediately, for it seemed as if something inside the bird went "thump, thump."
F	Tiny trembled very much; she was quite frightened, for the bird was large, a great deal larger than herself,- she was only an inch high.
H	The whole winter the swallow remained underground, and Tiny nursed him with care and love.
Sa	Tiny looked after him, and the tears rose in her eyes.
Sa	"Tweet, tweet," sang the bird, as he flew out into the green woods, and Tiny felt very sad.
Sa	But Tiny was not at all pleased; for she did not like the tiresome mole.
Sa	Then Tiny wept, and said she would not marry the disagreeable mole.
Sa	The poor child was very unhappy at the thought of saying farewell to the beautiful sun, and as the field-mouse had given her permission to stand at the door, she went to look at it once more.
H	As soon as he spied Tiny, he was delighted; and then she told him how unwilling she felt to marry the ugly mole, and to live always beneath the earth, and never to see the bright sun any more.
Sa	And as she told him she wept.
H	"That will be delightful," she said, and clapped her little hands for joy.
H	The little prince was at first quite frightened at the bird, who was like a giant, compared to such a delicate little creature as himself; but when he saw Tiny, he was delighted, and thought her the prettiest little maiden he had ever seen.
H	But I am fragrant with perfume, for close to my gates most lovely roses bloom."
H	The old washerwoman put her head in at the door, and nodded to him quite kindly, and said, "Many thanks, you good child, for your help yesterday.
H	"I know where it blooms," said a happy mother, who came with her lovely child to the bedside of the queen.
Sa	She wept over it, kissed it, and prayed for it as only a mother can pray in that hour of her anguish."
Sa	Tears stood in his eyes, and glistened on his cheeks; he carried a great book and the binding was of velvet, with silver clasps.
H	He seemed a merry fellow.
H	He looked very jovial, did little work, and had the more holidays.
H	How pretty she was! and such a singer! not a theatre singer, nor a ballad singer; no, but a singer of the woods; for she wandered through the gay green forest, and had a concert there for her own amusement.
Sa	He was hungry and thirsty, yet no one gave him anything; and when it became dark, and they were about to close the gardens, the porter turned him out.
H	The little boy said not a word; he was half pleased and half afraid.
H	One glory eclipsed another; yet there was one picture that fixed itself on the little boy's memory, more especially because of the happy children it represented, for these the little boy had seen in daylight.
H	The boy raised his hands towards the smiling children, and then the Pig ran off with him through the open vestibule.
F	Fear and trembling came upon him as he thought of his mother; she had sent him out the day before to get some money, he had not done so, and now he was hungry and thirsty.
Sa	Here everything was bright, and the boy knelt down by the first tomb on his right, the grave of Michael Angelo, and sobbed as if his heart would break.
Sa	Hunger and thirst overpowered the child, and he became quite faint and ill.
H	A little homely bed was prepared for him, but to him who had so often slept on the hard stones it was a royal couch, and he slept sweetly and dreamed of the splendid pictures and of the Metal Pig.
Sa	He wept at the thought, and then he played with the little, lively dog, and kissed it, while the old woman looked kindly at him to encourage him.
H	So the boy stayed with them, and the woman herself taught him to sew; and he ate well, and slept well, and became very merry.
H	They stopped before the picture by Bronzino, in which Christ is represented as standing in the lower world, with the children smiling before Him, in the sweet expectation of entering heaven; and the poor boy smiled, too, for here was his heaven.
F	A fiery dragon could not have frightened the little boy so much as did the little dog in this place.
Sa	Giuseppe went off at once, while his wife lamented, and the boy wept.
H	Then there was great rejoicing, and the painter caressed the boy, and gave him a number of pictures.
H	Certainly it was rather crooked, rather up and down, one leg thick, and another thin; still it was like the copy, and he was overjoyed at what he had done.
H	He knew very well that he had enough inside him to buy up all the other toys, and this gave him a very good opinion of his own value.
H	The doll, whose neck had been darned, was so excited that the place in her neck burst, and the money-pig declared he must do something for one of the players, as they had all pleased him so much.
H	The sun shone among the delicate leaves; everything breathed forth the loveliest fragrance, and all felt as we do when we are filled with joy at the thought of our happiness.
A	I am heartily tired of such neighbours."
H	"We make it lively about the house," said the sparrow-mother; "and people say that a swallows' nest brings luck; so they are glad of us.
H	But they were very pleased with it, and wondered whether all the little sparrows could become nightingales.
F	The horse-hair was drawn tightly round her leg- as tightly as if the latter were to be cut off; she was in great pain and terror.
H	He was a merry old man, always wandering about.
F	At these words an icy shudder ran through the sparrow-mother.
F	But she, trembling in every limb, did not think of the adornment.
F	"Now you will see the gold-jacket fly," said the old man, letting the sparrow go, which flew away in deadly fear, with the sun shining upon her.
Su	All the sparrows, and even a crow- and an old boy he was too- were startled at the sight; but still they flew after her to learn what kind of strange bird she was.
F	Driven by fear and horror, she flew homeward; she was almost sinking fainting to the earth, while the flock of pursuing birds increased, some even attempting to peck at her.
A	Then they all got excited; they hit out with their wings, pecked with their beaks, and flop! one after another was thrown out of the nest.
A	There they lay with their anger, holding their heads on one side and blinking the eye that was turned upwards.
A	And the eyes of all sparkled with malice.
H	The roses nodded; they recognized their grey neighbours and were pleased to see them again.
H	The books travelled all over the world, and some of them came into the hands of the emperor; and he sat in his golden chair, and, as he read, he nodded his approval every moment, for it pleased him to find such a beautiful description of his city, his palace, and his gardens.
H	Then the tears come into my eyes, and it is just as if my mother kissed me."
H	"With the greatest pleasure," said the nightingale, and began to sing most delightfully.
H	The nightingale sang so sweetly that the tears came into the emperor's eyes, and then rolled down his cheeks, as her song became still more touching and went to every one's heart.
H	The emperor was so delighted that he declared the nightingale should have his gold slipper to wear round her neck, but she declined the honor with thanks: she had been sufficiently rewarded already.
H	So a year passed, and the emperor, the court, and all the other Chinese knew every little turn in the artificial bird's song; and for that same reason it pleased them better.
Sa	Now there was great sorrow, as the bird could only be allowed to play once a year; and even that was dangerous for the works inside it.
Sa	Cold and pale lay the emperor in his royal bed; the whole court thought he was dead, and every one ran away to pay homage to his successor.
H	These are the jewels that rejoice a singer's heart.
H	I will sit on a bough outside your window, in the evening, and sing to you, so that you may be happy, and have thoughts full of joy.
Su	The servants now came in to look after the dead emperor; when, lo! there he stood, and, to their astonishment, said, "Good morning."
H	She said this merrily, for she was the best of the hens, and, moreover, as had been said, very respectable.
A	If I were a cock, I should despise her."
A	The hen who had lost the loose little feather naturally did not recognise her own story, and being a respectable hen, said: "I despise those fowls; but there are more of that kind.
A	He's angry to-day.
H	"'Could I but have my love, Who then so happy as Glove!
Sa	And so it was with Anthony; often the scalding tears, like pearly drops, would fall from his eyes to the coverlet and roll on the floor with a sound as if one of his heartstrings had broken.
Sa	If he dried his eyes with his nightcap, then the tear and the picture would be crushed; but the source of the tears remained and welled up again in his heart.
H	Then they got a flower-pot, filled it with earth, and were soon both very busy and eager about it.
Sa	And Molly and Anthony both wept, but these tears all flowed together into one tear which had the rosy shimmer of joy.
H	One stanza pleased him exceedingly-
A	Hot iron and cold iron alike take the skin from our lips, and we feel the same sensation if we kiss either; and Anthony's kiss was now the kiss of hatred, as it had once been the kiss of love.
Sa	Sorrow and suffering deprived Anthony's father of his strength, so that he had something else to think of besides nursing his love-sorrows and his anger against Molly.
Sa	How much came back to his remembrance as he looked through the tears once more on his native town!
Sa	There lay the old bachelor, forsaken by all, and unable to help himself.
H	The fragrant leaves of the tree fell upon him and cooled his burning brow; upon his parched lips they seemed like refreshing bread and wine; and as they rested on his breast, a peaceful calm stole over him, and he felt inclined to sleep.
H	In that solemn hour the sweet and joyous chiming filled the hearts of those in the humble dwelling with thankfulness and trust; and when, amidst these joyous sounds, a little son was born to them, the words of prayer and praise arose from their overflowing hearts, and their happiness seemed to ring out over town and country in the liquid tones of the church bells' chime.
H	Its parents kissed it lovingly, and the father wrote these words in the Bible, "On the tenth of November, 1759, God sent us a son."
Sa	He and his sister, two years older than himself, had often wept scalding tears over the story of Him who suffered death on the cross for us all.
H	His mother also told him how the chiming of that old bell had once filled her heart with joy and confidence, and that in the midst of the sweet tones her child had been given to her.
Sa	A record of this bright display will live in the memory of man, for through it the pupil in the military school was in tears and sorrow.
Sa	Dark days and cold nights also passed over the old bell, and it noticed them not; but the bell in the man's heart felt it to be a gloomy time.
Sa	The corpse lay in a bedroom, near to the one in which we sat, and the old man was in great distress and weeping like a child.
Sa	He spoke to my father, and to a few neighbors who were there, of how lonely he should feel now she was gone, and how good and true she, his dead wife, had been during the number of years that they had passed through life together, and how they had become acquainted, and learnt to love each other.
H	And then he talked of his wedding-day; and his eyes brightened, and he seemed to be carried back, by his words, to that joyful time.
H	And the old attendant nodded and looked very pleased, and then he carried the tin soldier into the house.
H	"Oh," replied the old man, "I have pleasant thoughts of all that has passed, recalled by memory; and now you are come to visit me, and that is very pleasant."
Sa	"I cannot endure it," said the tin soldier, who stood on a shelf, "it is so lonely and dull here.
H	Then the old man came back with a pleasant face; and brought with him beautiful preserved fruits, as well as apples and nuts; and the little boy thought no more of the tin soldier.
H	How happy and delighted the little boy was; and after he returned home, and while days and weeks passed, a great deal of nodding took place from one house to the other, and then the little boy went to pay another visit.
Sa	"I cannot bear it any longer," said the tin soldier; "I have wept tears of tin, it is so melancholy here.
H	Then he looked at the picture he had bought at the broker's, and his eyes sparkled brightly as he nodded at it, and said, "Ah, she could sing that tune."
H	The sparrows assembled in dozens upon the wild vines, and chattered all together as loud as they could, but not about the old house; none of them could remember it, for many years had passed by, so many indeed, that the little boy was now a man, and a really good man too, and his parents were very proud of him.
H	"Let me see him," said the young man, and then he smiled and shook his head, and said, "It can scarcely be the same, but it reminds me of something that happened to one of my tin soldiers when I was a little boy."
H	"Yes, terribly lonely," cried the tin soldier; "still it is delightful not to be forgotten."
Sa	He bent his head mournfully, and sighed in deep sorrow, as an unquiet spirit might sigh.
Sa	Song doth not carry them forth over the lands, nor into the hearts of men; therefore I have no rest and no peace."
H	Then the face of the dead one gleamed like the margin of the cloud in the moonlight.
H	How sweetly they sing there; it is quite a pleasure to listen to them!
A	"Well, then, why do you lie in my way?" she retorted, "you must not be so touchy.
A	I have nerves of my own, but I do not cry 'tweet.'"
A	When madam awoke afterwards, there he stood before her with a little corn he had found, and laid it at her feet; but as she had not slept well, she was naturally in a bad temper.
A	Don't stand there, looking so stupid."
A	"Impertinent creature!" exclaimed the Portuguese duck: "would you compare me with the cat- that beast of prey?
A	"You'll kill me with your crowing," she cried, "it's all your fault.
Sa	"We shall never have another singing-bird again amongst us; he was almost a Chinese," they whispered, and then they wept with such a noisy, clucking sound, that all the other fowls clucked too, but the ducks went about with redder eyes afterwards.
A	"Justice must still be carried out, even when one has relations and good friends among the prize committee; but that the snail should have received the second prize, I consider almost an insult to myself" "No," said the fence-rail, who had been a witness at the distribution of prizes; "there should be some consideration for industry and perseverance.
A	But I do not understand chattering and boasting; on the contrary, I despise it."
A	And the snail spat at them with contempt.
F	She was frightened, and wanted to throw the red shoes away; but they stuck fast.
F	"Mercy!" cried Karen.
F	And she went quickly up to the church-door; but when she came there, the red shoes were dancing before her, and she was frightened, and turned back.
Sa	During the whole week she was sad and wept many bitter tears, but when Sunday came again she said: "Now I have suffered and striven enough.
F	Then she became terrified, and turned back and repented right heartily of her sin.
Sa	On the following Sunday they all went to church, and she was asked whether she wished to go too; but, with tears in her eyes, she looked sadly at her crutches.
Sa	Here she sat down with her hymn-book, and as she was reading it with a pious mind, the wind carried the notes of the organ over to her from the church, and in tears she lifted up her face and said: "O God! help me!"
A	"What! is he going to propose to me?" said the scissors, and she became so angry that she cut too sharply into the shirt collar, and it was obliged to be thrown by as useless.
H	"Summer cannot show a more beautiful sight," she exclaimed, while her eyes sparkled.
H	The girl laughed, and nodded at the Snow Man, and then tripped away over the snow with her friend.
F	"But we are very much frightened," said the young storks, and they drew back their heads into the nests.
Su	"Oh, o- h!" cried the young storks.
A	The young storks were very angry, and grew worse as they grew older; so at last their mother was obliged to promise that they should be revenged, but not until the day of their departure.
H	The emperor ordered them to be carried into the great hall where the princess was just playing "Visitors are coming" with her ladies-in-waiting; when she saw the large cases with the presents therein, she clapped her hands for joy.
Sa	"You are right," said the emperor, and began to cry like a little child.
H	When the princess with her ladies passed by and heard the tune, she stopped and looked quite pleased, for she also could play it- in fact, it was the only tune she could play, and she played it with one finger.
H	That was a pleasure!
H	The ladies danced and clapped their hands for joy.
A	"Go out of my sight," said the emperor, for he was very angry; and both the princess and the swineherd were banished from the empire.
Sa	There she stood and cried, the swineherd scolded her, and the rain came down in torrents.
Sa	Oh, how wretched I am!"
A	"Ugh, you beast!" said the farm laborer who emptied the bucket, when he saw the toad.
H	She was glad that in her ugliness she had frightened the fowls.
H	Yes, I shall get to Egypt, for I feel so happy!
Sa	Far in the interior of the wood, where a noisy swarm of laborers were working, stood Waldemar Daa and his three daughters, and all were laughing at the wild cries of the birds, excepting one, the youngest, Anna Dorothea, who felt grieved to the heart; and when they made preparations to fell a tree that was almost dead, and on whose naked branches the black stork had built her nest, she saw the poor little things stretching out their necks, and she begged for mercy for them, with the tears in her eyes.
Sa	Ida and Anna Dorothea wept bitterly, Joanna stood, pale and proud, biting her lips till the blood came; but what could that avail?
Sa	I suppose he is under the ground now; and Ida- alas! alas! it is not ended yet; miserable that I am!
H	It touched the tin soldier so much to see her that he almost wept tin tears, but he kept them back.
H	However, he passed a very pleasant time; went to the theatre, drove in the king's garden, and gave a great deal of money to the poor, which was very good of him; he remembered what it had been in olden times to be without a shilling.
H	Now he was rich, had fine clothes, and many friends, who all declared he was a fine fellow and a real gentleman, and all this gratified him exceedingly.
Su	"And here is one, and there is another!" they all exclaimed; for there were crosses on all the doors in every direction.
H	The shoemaker's boy liked the idea of getting the four shillings, so he ran very fast and fetched the tinder-box, and gave it to the soldier.
H	The princess came out of the copper castle, and became queen, which was very pleasing to her.
A	But the ball, which wore a dress of morocco leather, and thought as much of herself as any other young lady, would not even condescend to reply.
Sa	"I know very well where she is," sighed the top; "she is in the swallow's nest, and has married the swallow."
Su	"Ah," she exclaimed, "here is a gilt top."
Su	The duck stared at it and exclaimed, "It is very large and not at all like the others.
Sa	"He is too big," they all said, and the turkey cock, who had been born into the world with spurs, and fancied himself really an emperor, puffed himself out like a vessel in full sail, and flew at the duckling, and became quite red in the head with passion, so that the poor little thing did not know where to go, and was quite miserable because he was so ugly and laughed at by the whole farmyard.
Sa	Here he remained the whole night, feeling very tired and sorrowful.
F	How they terrified the poor duckling!
H	She laid good eggs, and her mistress loved her as if she had been her own child.
Sa	So the duckling sat in a corner, feeling very low spirited, till the sunshine and the fresh air came into the room through the open door, and then he began to feel such a great longing for a swim on the water, that he could not help telling the hen.
Sa	All this was very sad for the poor little duckling.
Su	The duckling had never seen any like them before.
H	Could he ever forget those beautiful, happy birds; and when at last they were out of his sight, he dived under the water, and rose again almost beside himself with excitement.
F	The warmth revived the poor little creature; but when the children wanted to play with him, the duckling thought they would do him some harm; so he started up in terror, fluttered into the milk-pan, and splashed the milk about the room.
F	Then the woman clapped her hands, which frightened him still more.
Sa	The duckling remembered the lovely birds, and felt more strangely unhappy than ever.
H	He now felt glad at having suffered sorrow and trouble, because it enabled him to enjoy so much better all the pleasure and happiness around him; for the great swans swam round the new-comer, and stroked his neck with their beaks, as a welcome.
H	"See," cried the youngest, "there is a new one;" and the rest were delighted, and ran to their father and mother, dancing and clapping their hands, and shouting joyously, "There is another swan come; a new one has arrived."
H	Then he rustled his feathers, curved his slender neck, and cried joyfully, from the depths of his heart, "I never dreamed of such happiness as this, while I was an ugly duckling."
A	At last the prince had his own statue erected on the public places and fixed on the royal palaces; nay, he even wished it to be placed in the churches, on the altars, but in this the priests opposed him, saying: "Prince, you are mighty indeed, but God's power is much greater than yours; we dare not obey your orders."
A	They buzzed round the prince and stung his face and hands; angrily he drew his sword and brandished it, but he only touched the air and did not hit the gnats.
A	Mad with pain, he tore off the coverings and his clothes too, flinging them far away, and danced about before the eyes of his ferocious soldiers, who now mocked at him, the mad prince, who wished to make war with God, and was overcome by a single little gnat.
