F	"It is very unpleasant, I am afraid of the police," said Pickles.
A	Pickles nearly had a fit, he barked and he barked and made little rushes.
A	He shut the door in Nutkin's face.
A	Old Mr. Brown turned up his eyes in disgust at the impertinence of Nutkin.
A	And to this day, if you meet Nutkin up a tree and ask him a riddle, he will throw sticks at you, and stamp his feet and scold, and shout--
F	"I am dreadfully afraid it WILL be mouse!" said Duchess to herself--"I really couldn't, COULDN'T eat mouse pie.
H	"Quite well, I thank you, and how do YOU do, my dear Ribby?" said Duchess.
H	"I've brought you some flowers; what a delicious smell of pie!"
H	"Oh, what lovely flowers!
F	Oh, my dear Ribby, I do feel so ill!"
F	"Oh I do feel so ill ALL OVER me, my dear Ribby."
F	But while Ribby had been hunting for the doctor--a curious thing had happened to Duchess, who had been left by herself, sitting before the fire, sighing and groaning and feeling very unhappy.
Su	"How COULD I have swallowed it! such a large thing as a patty-pan!"
Sa	She sat down again, and stared mournfully at the grate.
Su	Duchess started!
H	"I am truly glad to hear it!
H	Ribby and Duchess said good-bye affectionately, and Duchess started home.
Su	Ribby stared with amazement-- "Did you ever see the like! so there really WAS a patty-pan?
F	Mrs. Tabitha became more and more distracted and mewed dreadfully.
F	But just at that moment somebody knocked at the front door, and Moppet jumped into the flour barrel in a fright.
F	Mittens ran away to the dairy and hid in an empty jar on the stone shelf where the milk pans stand.
Sa	I'm in sad trouble, Cousin Ribby," said Tabitha, shedding tears.
A	"He's a bad kitten, Cousin Tabitha; he made a cat's cradle of my best bonnet last time I came to tea.
Su	"The chimney wants sweeping-- Oh, dear me, Cousin Ribby--now Moppet and Mittens are gone!
Sa	"Yes, it is infested with rats," said Tabitha tearfully.
A	"The rats get upon my nerves, Cousin Ribby," said Tabitha.
F	She seemed to be in a terrible fright.
F	"Oh, Mother, Mother!" said Mittens--
F	"Oh!
F	Oh, my poor son Thomas!" exclaimed Tabitha, wringing her paws.
F	Tom Kitten was getting very frightened!
F	There was less smoke, but Tom Kitten felt quite lost.
F	I wish I had never come!
A	"What do you mean by tumbling into my bed all covered with smuts?" said the rat, chattering his teeth.
A	"Nonsense!
F	While Tom Kitten was left alone under the floor of the attic, he wriggled about and tried to mew for help.
F	Tom Kitten wriggled and squirmed until he was quite exhausted.
A	Tom Kitten bit and spit, and mewed and wriggled; and the rolling pin went roly-poly, roly; roly-poly, roly.
Su	Anna Maria was about to argue the point when all at once there began to be other sounds up above--the rasping noise of a saw, and the noise of a little dog, scratching and yelping!
A	As for Farmer Potatoes, he has been driven nearly distracted.
Sa	It feels sad.
Su	And then all of a sudden--Miss Moppet jumps upon the Mouse!
Su	But she forgot about that hole in the duster; and when she untied it-- there was no Mouse!
H	He has wriggled out and run away; and he is dancing a jig on top of the cupboard!
Sa	The tailor replied: "Simpkin, we shall make our fortune, but I am worn to a ravelling.
Su	Then the tailor started; for suddenly, interrupting him, from the dresser at the other side of the kitchen came a number of little noises--
Su	"This is passing extraordinary!" said the Tailor of Gloucester, and turned over another tea-cup, which was upside down.
A	But Simpkin hid a little parcel privately in the tea-pot, and spit and growled at the tailor; and if Simpkin had been able to talk, he would have asked: "Where is my MOUSE?"
Sa	"Alack, I am undone!" said the Tailor of Gloucester, and went sadly to bed.
Sa	The poor old tailor was very ill with a fever, tossing and turning in his four-post bed; and still in his dreams he mumbled: "No more twist! no more twist!"
H	The little mice only laughed, and tried another tune--
Sa	"Alack," said the tailor, "I have my twist; but no more strength--nor time--than will serve to make me one single buttonhole; for this is Christmas Day in the Morning!
A	Little Benjamin did not very much want to see his Aunt.
F	Peter did not seem to be enjoying himself; he kept hearing noises.
H	Benjamin, on the contrary, was perfectly at home, and ate a lettuce leaf.
F	Peter did not eat anything; he said he should like to go home.
F	Peter heard noises worse than ever; his eyes were as big as lolly-pops!
Su	The cat was too much surprised to scratch back.
Su	When Mr. McGregor returned about half an hour later he observed several things which perplexed him.
A	Listen to the story of Jemima Puddle-duck, who was annoyed because the farmer's wife would not let her hatch her own eggs.
H	She rather fancied a tree stump amongst some tall foxgloves.
Su	But--seated upon the stump, she was startled to find an elegantly dressed gentleman reading a newspaper.
A	Jemima complained of the superfluous hen.
Su	Jemima Puddle-duck was rather surprised to find such a vast quantity of feathers.
H	The foxy gentleman admired them immensely.
Su	When Jemima alighted he quite jumped.
F	Jemima became much alarmed.
H	"What a mercy that was not a pike!" said Mr. Jeremy Fisher.
A	The rabbits could not bear him; they could smell him half a mile off.
H	Old Mr. Bouncer coughed and laughed; and Tommy Brock puffed and grinned.
H	And Mr. Bouncer laughed and coughed, and shut his eyes because of the cabbage smoke ..........
A	He was in disgrace; Flopsy wrung her ears, and slapped him.
A	What a nasty person!" said Peter.
F	He had nodded, and pointed to the sack, and seemed doubled up with laughing.--"Come away, Peter; he will be cooking them; come quicker!" said Benjamin Bunny.
F	When they came near the wood at the top of Bull Banks, they went cautiously.
F	The rabbits crept up carefully, listening and peeping.
F	The rabbits shivered in their shoes.
Su	The young family were alive; shut up in the oven!
H	Benjamin was so excited that it was a mercy he did not awake Tommy Brock, whose snores continued solemnly in Mr. Tod's bed.
F	Then those two rabbits lost their heads completely.
A	Mr. Tod was coming up Bull Banks, and he was in the very worst of tempers.
A	First he had been upset by breaking the plate.
A	Mr. Tod had had an unsatisfactory night.
A	He made his way up the hill; his temper was not improved by noticing unmistakable marks of badger.
A	Mr. Tod slapped his stick upon the earth and fumed; he guessed where Tommy Brock had gone to.
A	He was further annoyed by the jay bird which followed him persistently.
A	The sight that met Mr. Tod's eyes in Mr. Tod's kitchen made Mr. Tod furious.
A	His whiskers bristled and his coat collar stood on end with rage.
A	When he was outside the house, he scratched up the earth with fury.
H	The moment he had gone, Tommy Brock got up in a hurry; he rolled Mr. Tod's dressing-gown into a bundle, put it into the bed beneath the pail of water instead of himself, and left the room also-- grinning immensely.
Su	At last the rope gave way with such a sudden jerk that it nearly pulled his teeth out, and quite knocked him over backwards.
H	He was quite dry himself and grinning; and he threw the cup of scalding tea all over Mr. Tod.
A	Then Mr. Tod rushed upon Tommy Brock, and Tommy Brock grappled with Mr. Tod amongst the broken crockery, and there was a terrific battle all over the kitchen.
F	They crept out of their tunnel, and hung about amongst the rocks and bushes, listening anxiously.
F	The rabbit babies in the oven woke up trembling; perhaps it was fortunate they were shut up inside.
F	But Benjamin was frightened--
F	"Oh; oh! they are coming back!"
A	After quarreling at supper, Flopsy and old Mr. Bouncer had passed a sleepless night, and quarrelled again at breakfast.
F	In Mr. Tod's kitchen, amidst the wreckage, Benjamin Bunny picked his way to the oven nervously, through a thick cloud of dust.
H	Great was old Mr. Bouncer's relief and Flopsy's joy when Peter and Benjamin arrived in triumph with the young family.
Sa	One day little Lucie came into the farm-yard crying--oh, she did cry so!
F	A little frightened voice called out "Who's that?"
F	There was a nice hot singey smell; and at the table, with an iron in her hand, stood a very stout short person staring anxiously at Lucie.
Su	Her little black nose went sniffle, sniffle, snuffle, and her eyes went twinkle, twinkle; and underneath her cap-where Lucie had yellow curls-that little person had PRICKLES!
H	"Oh that IS lovely!" said Lucie.
H	And she gave them their nice clean clothes; and all the little animals and birds were so very much obliged to dear Mrs. Tiggy-winkle.
A	"Go away, you bold bad spider!
A	Mrs. Tittlemouse looked at her severely.
A	Mrs. Tittle- mouse began to get cross.
A	"I am not in the habit of letting lodgings; this is an intrusion!" said Mrs. Tittlemouse.
H	He was sitting all over a small rocking chair, twiddling his thumbs and smiling, with his feet on the fender.
H	"Thank you, thank you, thank you, Mrs. Tittlemouse!
H	He sat and smiled, and the water dripped off his coat tails.
H	"Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Tittlemouse!
H	"Thank you, thank you, thank you, Mrs. Tittlemouse!
H	Now what I really--REALLY should like-- would be a little dish of honey!"
A	"Get out, you nasty old toad!" shrieked Babbitty Bumble.
A	"I shall go distracted!" scolded Mrs. Tittlemouse.
A	But the untidiness was something dreadful--"Never did I see such a mess--smears of honey; and moss, and thistledown--and marks of big and little dirty feet-- all over my nice clean house!"
Su	But round the end of a cucumber frame, whom should he meet but Mr. McGregor!
F	Peter was most dreadfully frightened; he rushed all over the garden, for he had forgotten the way back to the gate.
Sa	Peter gave himself up for lost, and shed big tears; but his sobs were overheard by some friendly sparrows, who flew to him in great excitement, and implored him to exert himself.
F	Peter sat down to rest; he was out of breath and trembling with fright, and he had not the least idea which way to go.
Sa	Peter began to cry.
H	The eight little pigs had very fine appetites--"Yus, yus, yus! they eat and indeed they DO eat!" said Aunt Pettitoes, looking at her family with pride.
F	Suddenly there were fearful squeals; Alexander had squeezed inside the hoops of the pig trough and stuck.
Sa	Aunt Pettitoes wiped her eyes with a large pocket handkerchief, then she wiped Pigling Bland's nose and shed tears; then she wiped Alexander's nose and shed tears; then she passed the handkerchief to Spot.
Sa	Aunt Pettitoes sighed and grunted, and addressed those little pigs as follows--
Sa	Pigling Bland who was a sedate little pig, looked solemnly at his mother, a tear trickled down his cheek.
H	Alexander went into squeals of laughter.
A	Pigling Bland reproved Alexander.
H	But presently they made it up again, and trotted away together, singing--
Su	Pigling Bland was shocked, there was little hope of sleeping in Market Town, and tomorrow was the hiring fair; it was deplorable to think how much time had been wasted by the frivolity of Alexander.
F	Pigling Bland became frightened and cried "Wee, wee, wee!
F	I can't find my way home!"
Sa	He saw a small wooden hut, made his way to it, and crept inside --"I am afraid it IS a hen house, but what can I do?" said Pigling Bland, wet and cold and quite tired out.
A	"Trap, trap, trap! cackle, cackle, cackle!" scolded the disturbed cockerel.
F	Pigling Bland, much alarmed, determined to leave at daybreak.
H	A perfectly lovely little black Berkshire pig stood smiling beside him.
F	Pig-wig looked anxious.
Su	"I thought you had eaten them?" said Pigling, waking suddenly.
Sa	I have tooth- ache," said Pigling much dismayed.
F	He was afraid to go to sleep himself; for the rest of the night he sat listening to the chirping of the crickets and to the snores of Mr. Piperson overhead.
H	She dropped Pigling's hand and commenced to dance, singing-- presently.
A	Pigling Bland refused quite crossly.
F	And in sight of the bridge!" said poor Pigling, nearly crying.
H	They came to the river, they came to the bridge--they crossed it hand in hand--then over the hills and far away she danced with Pigling Bland!
H	They had a large family, and they were very improvident and cheerful.
H	The little Flopsy Bunnies slept delightfully in the warm sun.
H	The little rabbits smiled sweetly in their sleep under the shower of grass; they did not awake because the lettuces had been so soporific.
Su	What's that?
A	When she felt the vegetables she became very very angry.
A	And Mr. McGregor was very angry too.
Sa	Timmy coughed and groaned, because his ribs hurted him.
H	It laughed and chuckled when it heard Timmy's story.
F	My wife will be anxious!"
H	Chippy Hackee was not too fat, but he did not want to come; he stayed down below and chuckled.
F	Chippy Hackee went home in a hurry!
Su	They had very small eyes and looked surprised.
H	Mittens laughed so that she fell off the wall.
H	"It's a very fine morning!" said Mr. Drake Puddle-duck.
A	She pulled them off the wall, smacked them, and took them back to the house.
A	"My friends will arrive in a minute, and you are not fit to be seen; I am affronted," said Mrs. Tabitha Twitchit.
F	Tom Thumb and Hunca Munca went cautiously across the hearthrug.
H	Then they squeaked with joy!
A	Then Tom Thumb lost his temper.
A	Then there was no end to the rage and disappointment of Tom Thumb and Hunca Munca.
