In a certain mill lived an old miller who had neither wife nor child, and three apprentices served under him.
As they had been with him several years, he one day said to them, "I am old, and want to sit in the chimney-corner, go out, and whichsoever of you brings me the best horse home, to him will I give the mill, and in return for it he shall take care of me till my death."
The third of the boys was, however, the drudge, who was looked on as foolish by the others; they begrudged the mill to him, and afterwards he would not have it.
Then all three went out together, and when they came to the village, the two said to stupid Hans, "Thou mayst just as well stay here, as long as thou livest thou wilt never get a horse."
Hans, however, went with them, and when it was night they came to a cave in which they lay down to sleep.
The two sharp ones waited until Hans had fallen asleep, then they got up, and went away leaving him where he was.
And they thought they had done a very clever thing, but it was certain to turn out ill for them.
When the sun arose, and Hans woke up, he was lying in a deep cavern.
He looked around on every side and exclaimed, "Oh, heavens, where am I?"
Then he got up and clambered out of the cave, went into the forest, and thought, "Here I am quite alone and deserted, how shall I obtain a horse now?"
Whilst he was thus walking full of thought, he met a small tabby-cat which said quite kindly, "Hans, where are you going?"
"Alas, thou canst not help me."
"I well know your desire," said the cat.
"You wish to have a beautiful horse.
Come with me, and be my faithful servant for seven years long, and then I will give you one more beautiful than any you have ever seen in your whole life."
"Well, this is a wonderful cat!" thought Hans, "but I am determined to see if she is telling the truth."
So she took him with her into her enchanted castle, where there were nothing but cats who were her servants.
They leapt nimbly upstairs and downstairs, and were merry and happy.
In the evening when they sat down to dinner, three of them had to make music.
One played the bassoon, the other the fiddle, and the third put the trumpet to his lips, and blew out his cheeks as much as he possibly could.
When they had dined, the table was carried away, and the cat said, "Now, Hans, come and dance with me."
"No," said he, "I won"t dance with a pussy cat.
I have never done that yet."
"Then take him to bed," said she to the cats.
So one of them lighted him to his bed-room, one pulled his shoes off, one his stockings, and at last one of them blew out the candle.
Next morning they returned and helped him out of bed, one put his stockings on for him, one tied his garters, one brought his shoes, one washed him, and one dried his face with her tail.
"That feels very soft!" said Hans.
He, however, had to serve the cat, and chop some wood every day, and to do that, he had an axe of silver, and the wedge and saw were of silver and the mallet of copper.
So he chopped the wood small; stayed there in the house and had good meat and drink, but never saw anyone but the tabby-cat and her servants.
Once she said to him, "Go and mow my meadow, and dry the grass," and gave him a scythe of silver, and a whetstone of gold, but bade him deliver them up again carefully.
So Hans went thither, and did what he was bidden, and when he had finished the work, he carried the scythe, whetstone, and hay to the house, and asked if it was not yet time for her to give him his reward.
"No," said the cat, "you must first do something more for me of the same kind.
There is timber of silver, carpenter"s axe, square, and everything that is needful, all of silver, with these build me a small house."
Then Hans built the small house, and said that he had now done everything, and still he had no horse.
Nevertheless the seven years had gone by with him as if they were six months.
The cat asked him if he would like to see her horses?
"Yes," said Hans.
Then she opened the door of the small house, and when she had opened it, there stood twelve horses, such horses, so bright and shining, that his heart rejoiced at the sight of them.
And now she gave him to eat and drink, and said, "Go home, I will not give thee thy horse away with thee; but in three days" time I will follow thee and bring it."
So Hans set out, and she showed him the way to the mill.
She had, however, never once given him a new coat, and he had been obliged to keep on his dirty old smock-frock, which he had brought with him, and which during the seven years had everywhere become too small for him.
When he reached home, the two other apprentices were there again as well, and each of them certainly had brought a horse with him, but one of them was a blind one, and the other lame.
They asked Hans where his horse was.
"It will follow me in three days" time."
Then they laughed and said, "Indeed, stupid Hans, where wilt thou get a horse?"
"It will be a fine one!"
Hans went into the parlour, but the miller said he should not sit down to table, for he was so ragged and torn, that they would all be ashamed of him if any one came in.
So they gave him a mouthful of food outside, and at night, when they went to rest, the two others would not let him have a bed, and at last he was forced to creep into the goose-house, and lie down on a little hard straw.
In the morning when he awoke, the three days had passed, and a coach came with six horses and they shone so bright that it was delightful to see them! and a servant brought a seventh as well, which was for the poor miller"s boy.
And a magnificent princess alighted from the coach and went into the mill, and this princess was the little tabby-cat whom poor Hans had served for seven years.
She asked the miller where the miller"s boy and drudge was?
Then the miller said, "We cannot have him here in the mill, for he is so ragged; he is lying in the goose-house."
Then the King"s daughter said that they were to bring him immediately.
So they brought him out, and he had to hold his little smock-frock together to cover himself.
The servants unpacked splendid garments, and washed him and dressed him, and when that was done, no King could have looked more handsome.
Then the maiden desired to see the horses which the other apprentices had brought home with them, and one of them was blind and the other lame.
So she ordered the servant to bring the seventh horse, and when the miller saw it, he said that such a horse as that had never yet entered his yard.
"And that is for the third miller"s boy," said she.
"Then he must have the mill," said the miller, but the King"s daughter said that the horse was there, and that he was to keep his mill as well, and took her faithful Hans and set him in the coach, and drove away with him.
They first drove to the little house which he had built with the silver tools, and behold it was a great castle, and everything inside it was of silver and gold; and then she married him, and he was rich, so rich that he had enough for all the rest of his life.
After this, let no one ever say that anyone who is silly can never become a person of importance.
There was once on a time a princess who was extremely proud.
If a wooer came she gave him some riddle to guess, and if he could not find it out, he was sent contemptuously away.
She let it be made known also that whosoever solved her riddle should marry her, let him be who he might.
At length, therefore, three tailors fell in with each other, the two eldest of whom thought they had done so many dexterous bits of work successfully that they could not fail to succeed in this also; the third was a little useless land-louper, who did not even know his trade, but thought he must have some luck in this venture, for where else was it to come from?
Then the two others said to him, "Just stay at home; thou canst not do much with thy little bit of understanding."
The little tailor, however, did not let himself be discouraged, and said he had set his head to work about this for once, and he would manage well enough, and he went forth as if the whole world were his.
They all three announced themselves to the princess, and said she was to propound her riddle to them, and that the right persons were now come, who had understandings so fine that they could be threaded in a needle.
Then said the princess, "I have two kinds of hair on my head, of what color is it?"
"If that be all," said the first, "it must be black and white, like the cloth which is called pepper and salt."
The princess said, "Wrongly guessed; let the second answer."
Then said the second, "If it be not black and white, then it is brown and red, like my father"s company coat."
"Wrongly guessed," said the princess, "let the third give the answer, for I see very well he knows it for certain."
Then the little tailor stepped boldly forth and said, "The princess has a silver and a golden hair on her head, and those are the two different colors."
When the princess heard that, she turned pale and nearly fell down with terror, for the little tailor had guessed her riddle, and she had firmly believed that no man on earth could discover it.
When her courage returned she said, "Thou hast not won me yet by that; there is still something else that thou must do.
Below, in the stable is a bear with which thou shalt pass the night, and when I get up in the morning if thou art still alive, thou shalt marry me."
She expected, however, she should thus get rid of the tailor, for the bear had never yet left any one alive who had fallen into his clutches.
The little tailor did not let himself be frightened away, but was quite delighted, and said, "Boldly ventured is half won."
When therefore the evening came, our little tailor was taken down to the bear.
The bear was about to set at the little fellow at once, and give him a hearty welcome with his paws: "Softly, softly," said the little tailor, "I will soon make thee quiet."
Then quite composedly, and as if he had not an anxiety in the world, he took some nuts out of his pocket, cracked them, and ate the kernels.
When the bear saw that, he was seized with a desire to have some nuts too.
The tailor felt in his pockets, and reached him a handful; they were, however, not nuts, but pebbles.
The bear put them in his mouth, but could get nothing out of them, let him bite as he would.
"Eh!" thought he, "what a stupid blockhead I am!
I cannot even crack a nut!" and then he said to the tailor, "Here, crack me the nuts."
"There, see what a stupid fellow thou art!" said the little tailor, "to have such a great mouth, and not be able to crack a small nut!"
Then he took the pebble and nimbly put a nut in his mouth in the place of it, and crack, it was in two!
"I must try the thing again," said the bear; "when I watch you, I then think I ought to be able to do it too."
So the tailor once more gave him a pebble, and the bear tried and tried to bite into it with all the strength of his body.
But no one will imagine that he accomplished it.
When that was over, the tailor took out a violin from beneath his coat, and played a piece of it to himself.
When the bear heard the music, he could not help beginning to dance, and when he had danced a while, the thing pleased him so well that he said to the little tailor, "Hark you, is the fiddle heavy?"
"Light enough for a child.
Look, with the left hand I lay my fingers on it, and with the right I stroke it with the bow, and then it goes merrily, hop sa sa vivallalera!"
"So," said the bear; "fiddling is a thing I should like to understand too, that I might dance whenever I had a fancy.
What dost thou think of that?
"Wilt thou give me lessons?"
"With all my heart," said the tailor, "if thou hast a talent for it.
But just let me see thy claws, they are terribly long, I must cut thy nails a little."
Then a vise was brought, and the bear put his claws in it, and the little tailor screwed it tight, and said, "Now wait until I come with the scissors," and he let the bear growl as he liked, and lay down in the corner on a bundle of straw, and fell asleep.
When the princess heard the bear growling so fiercely during the night, she believed nothing else but that he was growling for joy, and had made an end of the tailor.
In the morning she arose careless and happy, but when she peeped into the stable, the tailor stood gaily before her, and was as healthy as a fish in water.
Now she could not say another word against the wedding because she had given a promise before every one, and the King ordered a carriage to be brought in which she was to drive to church with the tailor, and there she was to be married.
When they had got into the carriage, the two other tailors, who had false hearts and envied him his good fortune, went into the stable and unscrewed the bear again.
The bear in great fury ran after the carriage.
The princess heard him snorting and growling; she was terrified, and she cried, "Ah, the bear is behind us and wants to get thee!"
The tailor was quick and stood on his head, stuck his legs out of the window, and cried, "Dost thou see the vise?
If thou dost not be off thou shalt be put into it again."
When the bear saw that, he turned round and ran away.
The tailor drove quietly to church, and the princess was married to him at once, and he lived with her as happy as a woodlark.
Whosoever does not believe this, must pay a thaler.
Little brother took his little sister by the hand and said, "Since our mother died we have had no happiness; our step-mother beats us every day, and if we come near her she kicks us away with her foot.
Our meals are the hard crusts of bread that are left over; and the little dog under the table is better off, for she often throws it a nice bit.
May Heaven pity us.
If our mother only knew!
Come, we will go forth together into the wide world."
They walked the whole day over meadows, fields, and stony places; and when it rained the little sister said, "Heaven and our hearts are weeping together."
In the evening they came to a large forest, and they were so weary with sorrow and hunger and the long walk, that they lay down in a hollow tree and fell asleep.
The next day when they awoke, the sun was already high in the sky, and shone down hot into the tree.
Then the brother said, "Sister, I am thirsty; if I knew of a little brook I would go and just take a drink; I think I hear one running."
The brother got up and took the little sister by the hand, and they set off to find the brook.
But the wicked step-mother was a witch, and had seen how the two children had gone away, and had crept after them privily, as witches do creep, and had bewitched all the brooks in the forest.
Now when they found a little brook leaping brightly over the stones, the brother was going to drink out of it, but the sister heard how it said as it ran, "Who drinks of me will be a tiger; who drinks of me will be a tiger."
Then the sister cried, "Pray, dear brother, do not drink, or you will become a wild beast, and tear me to pieces."
The brother did not drink, although he was so thirsty, but said, "I will wait for the next spring."
When they came to the next brook the sister heard this also say, "Who drinks of me will be a wolf; who drinks of me will be a wolf."
Then the sister cried out, "Pray, dear brother, do not drink, or you will become a wolf, and devour me."
The brother did not drink, and said, "I will wait until we come to the next spring, but then I must drink, say what you like; for my thirst is too great."
And when they came to the third brook the sister heard how it said as it ran, "Who drinks of me will be a roebuck; who drinks of me will be a roebuck."
The sister said, "Oh, I pray you, dear brother, do not drink, or you will become a roebuck, and run away from me."
But the brother had knelt down at once by the brook, and had bent down and drunk some of the water, and as soon as the first drops touched his lips he lay there a young roebuck.
And now the sister wept over her poor bewitched brother, and the little roe wept also, and sat sorrowfully near to her.
But at last the girl said, "Be quiet, dear little roe, I will never, never leave you."
Then she untied her golden garter and put it round the roebuck"s neck, and she plucked rushes and wove them into a soft cord.
With this she tied the little beast and led it on, and she walked deeper and deeper into the forest.
And when they had gone a very long way they came at last to a little house, and the girl looked in; and as it was empty, she thought, "We can stay here and live."
Then she sought for leaves and moss to make a soft bed for the roe; and every morning she went out and gathered roots and berries and nuts for herself, and brought tender grass for the roe, who ate out of her hand, and was content and played round about her.
In the evening, when the sister was tired, and had said her prayer, she laid her head upon the roebuck"s back: that was her pillow, and she slept softly on it.
And if only the brother had had his human form it would have been a delightful life.
For some time they were alone like this in the wilderness.
But it happened that the King of the country held a great hunt in the forest.
Then the blasts of the horns, the barking of dogs, and the merry shouts of the huntsmen rang through the trees, and the roebuck heard all, and was only too anxious to be there.
"Oh," said he, to his sister, "let me be off to the hunt, I cannot bear it any longer;" and he begged so much that at last she agreed.
"But," said she to him, "come back to me in the evening; I must shut my door for fear of the rough huntsmen, so knock and say, "My little sister, let me in!" that I may know you; and if you do not say that, I shall not open the door."
Then the young roebuck sprang away; so happy was he and so merry in the open air.
The King and the huntsmen saw the pretty creature, and started after him, but they could not catch him, and when they thought that they surely had him, away he sprang through the bushes and could not be seen.
When it was dark he ran to the cottage, knocked, and said, "My little sister, let me in."
Then the door was opened for him, and he jumped in, and rested himself the whole night through upon his soft bed.
The next day the hunt went on afresh, and when the roebuck again heard the bugle-horn, and the ho! ho! of the huntsmen, he had no peace, but said, "Sister, let me out, I must be off."
His sister opened the door for him, and said, "But you must be here again in the evening and say your pass-word."
When the King and his huntsmen again saw the young roebuck with the golden collar, they all chased him, but he was too quick and nimble for them.
This went on for the whole day, but at last by the evening the huntsmen had surrounded him, and one of them wounded him a little in the foot, so that he limped and ran slowly.
Then a hunter crept after him to the cottage and heard how he said, "My little sister, let me in," and saw that the door was opened for him, and was shut again at once.
The huntsman took notice of it all, and went to the King and told him what he had seen and heard.
Then the King said, "To-morrow we will hunt once more."
The little sister, however, was dreadfully frightened when she saw that her fawn was hurt.
She washed the blood off him, laid herbs on the wound, and said, "Go to your bed, dear roe, that you may get well again."
But the wound was so slight that the roebuck, next morning, did not feel it any more.
And when he again heard the sport outside, he said, "I cannot bear it, I must be there; they shall not find it so easy to catch me."
The sister cried, and said, "This time they will kill you, and here am I alone in the forest and forsaken by all the world.
I will not let you out."
"Then you will have me die of grief," answered the roe; "when I hear the bugle-horns I feel as if I must jump out of my skin."
Then the sister could not do otherwise, but opened the door for him with a heavy heart, and the roebuck, full of health and joy, bounded into the forest.
When the King saw him, he said to his huntsmen, "Now chase him all day long till night-fall, but take care that no one does him any harm."
As soon as the sun had set, the King said to the huntsman, "Now come and show me the cottage in the wood;" and when he was at the door, he knocked and called out, "Dear little sister, let me in."
Then the door opened, and the King walked in, and there stood a maiden more lovely than any he had ever seen.
The maiden was frightened when she saw, not her little roe, but a man come in who wore a golden crown upon his head.
But the King looked kindly at her, stretched out his hand, and said, "Will you go with me to my palace and be my dear wife?"
"Yes, indeed," answered the maiden, "but the little roe must go with me, I cannot leave him."
The King said, "It shall stay with you as long as you live, and shall want nothing."
Just then he came running in, and the sister again tied him with the cord of rushes, took it in her own hand, and went away with the King from the cottage.
The King took the lovely maiden upon his horse and carried her to his palace, where the wedding was held with great pomp.
She was now the Queen, and they lived for a long time happily together; the roebuck was tended and cherished, and ran about in the palace-garden.
But the wicked step-mother, because of whom the children had gone out into the world, thought all the time that the sister had been torn to pieces by the wild beasts in the wood, and that the brother had been shot for a roebuck by the huntsmen.
Now when she heard that they were so happy, and so well off, envy and hatred rose in her heart and left her no peace, and she thought of nothing but how she could bring them again to misfortune.
Her own daughter, who was ugly as night, and had only one eye, grumbled at her and said, "A Queen! that ought to have been my luck."
"Only be quiet," answered the old woman, and comforted her by saying, "when the time comes I shall be ready."
As time went on, the Queen had a pretty little boy, and it happened that the King was out hunting; so the old witch took the form of the chamber-maid, went into the room where the Queen lay, and said to her, "Come, the bath is ready; it will do you good, and give you fresh strength; make haste before it gets cold."
The daughter also was close by; so they carried the weakly Queen into the bath-room, and put her into the bath; then they shut the door and ran away.
But in the bath-room they had made a fire of such deadly heat that the beautiful young Queen was soon suffocated.
When this was done the old woman took her daughter, put a nightcap on her head, and laid her in bed in place of the Queen.
She gave her too the shape and the look of the Queen, only she could not make good the lost eye.
But in order that the King might not see it, she was to lie on the side on which she had no eye.
In the evening when he came home and heard that he had a son he was heartily glad, and was going to the bed of his dear wife to see how she was.
But the old woman quickly called out, "For your life leave the curtains closed; the Queen ought not to see the light yet, and must have rest."
The King went away, and did not find out that a false Queen was lying in the bed.
But at midnight, when all slept, the nurse, who was sitting in the nursery by the cradle, and who was the only person awake, saw the door open and the true Queen walk in.
She took the child out of the cradle, laid it on her arm, and suckled it.
Then she shook up its pillow, laid the child down again, and covered it with the little quilt.
And she did not forget the roebuck, but went into the corner where it lay, and stroked its back.
Then she went quite silently out of the door again.
The next morning the nurse asked the guards whether anyone had come into the palace during the night, but they answered, "No, we have seen no one."
She came thus many nights and never spoke a word: the nurse always saw her, but she did not dare to tell anyone about it.
When some time had passed in this manner, the Queen began to speak in the night, and said---
"How fares my child, how fares my roe?
Twice shall I come, then never more."
The nurse did not answer, but when the Queen had gone again, went to the King and told him all.
The King said, "Ah, heavens! what is this?
To-morrow night I will watch by the child."
In the evening he went into the nursery, and at midnight the Queen again appeared and said---
"How fares my child, how fares my roe?
Once will I come, then never more."
And she nursed the child as she was wont to do before she disappeared.
The King dared not speak to her, but on the next night he watched again.
Then she said---
"How fares my child, how fares my roe?
This time I come, then never more."
Then the King could not restrain himself; he sprang towards her, and said, "You can be none other than my dear wife."
She answered, "Yes, I am your dear wife," and at the same moment she received life again, and by God"s grace became fresh, rosy, and full of health.
Then she told the King the evil deed which the wicked witch and her daughter had been guilty of towards her.
The King ordered both to be led before the judge, and judgment was delivered against them.
The daughter was taken into the forest where she was torn to pieces by wild beasts, but the witch was cast into the fire and miserably burnt.
And as soon as she was burnt the roebuck changed his shape, and received his human form again, so the sister and brother lived happily together all their lives.
There was once a man whose wife died, and a woman whose husband died, and the man had a daughter, and the woman also had a daughter.
The girls were acquainted with each other, and went out walking together, and afterwards came to the woman in her house.
Then said she to the man"s daughter, "Listen, tell thy father that I would like to marry him, and then thou shalt wash thyself in milk every morning, and drink wine, but my own daughter shall wash herself in water and drink water."
The girl went home, and told her father what the woman had said.
The man said, "What shall I do?
Marriage is a joy and also a torment."
At length as he could come to no decision, he pulled off his boot, and said, "Take this boot, it has a hole in the sole of it.
Go with it up to the loft, hang it on the big nail, and then pour water into it.
If it hold the water, then I will again take a wife, but if it run through, I will not."
The girl did as she was ordered, but the water drew the hole together, and the boot became full to the top.
She informed her father how it had turned out.
Then he himself went up, and when he saw that she was right, he went to the widow and wooed her, and the wedding was celebrated.
The next morning, when the two girls got up, there stood before the man"s daughter milk for her to wash in and wine for her to drink, but before the woman"s daughter stood water to wash herself with and water for drinking.
On the second morning, stood water for washing and water for drinking before the man"s daughter as well as before the woman"s daughter.
And on the third morning stood water for washing and water for drinking before the man"s daughter, and milk for washing and wine for drinking, before the woman"s daughter, and so it continued.
The woman became bitterly unkind to her step-daughter, and day by day did her best to treat her still worse.
She was also envious because her step-daughter was beautiful and lovable, and her own daughter ugly and repulsive.
Once, in winter, when everything was frozen as hard as a stone, and hill and vale lay covered with snow, the woman made a frock of paper, called her step-daughter, and said, "Here, put on this dress and go out into the wood, and fetch me a little basketful of strawberries,---I have a fancy for some."
"Good heavens!" said the girl, "no strawberries grow in winter!
The ground is frozen, and besides the snow has covered everything.
And why am I to go in this paper frock?
It is so cold outside that one"s very breath freezes!
The wind will blow through the frock, and the thorns will tear it off my body."
"Wilt thou contradict me again?" said the stepmother, "See that thou goest, and do not show thy face again until thou hast the basketful of strawberries!"
Then she gave her a little piece of hard bread, and said, "This will last thee the day," and thought, "Thou wilt die of cold and hunger outside, and wilt never be seen again by me."
Then the maiden was obedient, and put on the paper frock, and went out with the basket.
Far and wide there was nothing but snow, and not a green blade to be seen.
When she got into the wood she saw a small house out of which peeped three dwarfs.
She wished them good day, and knocked modestly at the door.
They cried, "Come in," and she entered the room and seated herself on the bench by the stove, where she began to warm herself and eat her breakfast.
The elves said, "Give us, too, some of it."
"Willingly," she said, and divided her bit of bread in two and gave them the half.
They asked, "What dost thou here in the forest in the winter time, in thy thin dress?"
"Ah," she answered, "I am to look for a basketful of strawberries, and am not to go home until I can take them with me."
When she had eaten her bread, they gave her a broom and said, "Sweep away the snow at the back door with it."
But when she was outside, the three little men said to each other, "What shall we give her as she is so good, and has shared her bread with us?"
Then said the first, "My gift is, that she shall every day grow more beautiful."
The second said, "My gift is, that gold pieces shall fall out of her mouth every time she speaks."
The third said, "My gift is, that a king shall come and take her to wife."
The girl, however, did as the little men had bidden her, swept away the snow behind the little house with the broom, and what did she find but real ripe strawberries, which came up quite dark-red out of the snow!
In her joy she hastily gathered her basket full, thanked the little men, shook hands with each of them, and ran home to take her step-mother what she had longed for so much.
When she went in and said good-evening, a piece of gold at once fell from her mouth.
Thereupon she related what had happened to her in the wood, but with every word she spoke, gold pieces fell from her mouth, until very soon the whole room was covered with them.
"Now look at her arrogance," cried the step-sister, "to throw about gold in that way!" but she was secretly envious of it, and wanted to go into the forest also to seek strawberries.
The mother said, "No, my dear little daughter, it is too cold, thou mightest die of cold."
However, as her daughter let her have no peace, the mother at last yielded, made her a magnificent dress of fur, which she was obliged to put on, and gave her bread-and-butter and cake with her.
The girl went into the forest and straight up to the little house.
The three little elves peeped out again, but she did not greet them, and without looking round at them and without speaking to them, she went awkwardly into the room, seated herself by the stove, and began to eat her bread-and-butter and cake.
"Give us some of it," cried the little men; but she replied, "There is not enough for myself, so how can I give it away to other people?"
When she had done eating, they said, "There is a broom for thee, sweep all clean for us outside by the back-door."
"Humph!
Sweep for yourselves," she answered, "I am not your servant."
When she saw that they were not going to give her anything, she went out by the door.
Then the little men said to each other, "What shall we give her as she is so naughty, and has a wicked envious heart, that will never let her do a good turn to any one?"
The first said, "I grant that she may grow uglier every day."
The second said, "I grant that at every word she says, a toad shall spring out of her mouth."
The third said, "I grant that she may die a miserable death."
The maiden looked for strawberries outside, but as she found none, she went angrily home.
And when she opened her mouth, and was about to tell her mother what had happened to her in the wood, with every word she said, a toad sprang out of her mouth, so that every one was seized with horror of her.
Then the step-mother was still more enraged, and thought of nothing but how to do every possible injury to the man"s daughter, whose beauty, however, grew daily greater.
At length she took a cauldron, set it on the fire, and boiled yarn in it.
When it was boiled, she flung it on the poor girl"s shoulder, and gave her an axe in order that she might go on the frozen river, cut a hole in the ice, and rinse the yarn.
She was obedient, went thither and cut a hole in the ice; and while she was in the midst of her cutting, a splendid carriage came driving up, in which sat the King.
The carriage stopped, and the King asked,"My child, who are thou, and what art thou doing here?"
"I am a poor girl, and I am rinsing yarn."
Then the King felt compassion, and when he saw that she was so very beautiful, he said to her, "Wilt thou go away with me?"
"Ah, yes, with all my heart," she answered, for she was glad to get away from the mother and sister.
So she got into the carriage and drove away with the King, and when they arrived at his palace, the wedding was celebrated with great pomp, as the little men had granted to the maiden.
When a year was over, the young Queen bore a son, and as the step-mother had heard of her great good-fortune, she came with her daughter to the palace and pretended that she wanted to pay her a visit.
Once, however, when the King had gone out, and no one else was present, the wicked woman seized the Queen by the head, and her daughter seized her by the feet, and they lifted her out of the bed, and threw her out of the window into the stream which flowed by.
Then the ugly daughter laid herself in the bed, and the old woman covered her up over her head.
When the King came home again and wanted to speak to his wife, the old woman cried, "Hush, hush, that can"t be now, she is lying in a violent perspiration; you must let her rest to-day."
The King suspected no evil, and did not come back again till next morning; and as he talked with his wife and she answered him, with every word a toad leaped out, whereas formerly a piece of gold had fallen out.
Then he asked what that could be, but the old woman said that she had got that from the violent perspiration, and would soon lose it again.
During the night, however, the scullion saw a duck come swimming up the gutter, and it said,
"King, what art thou doing now?
Sleepest thou, or wakest thou?"
And as he returned no answer, it said,
"And my guests, What may they do?"
The scullion said,
"They are sleeping soundly, too."
Then it asked again,
"What does little baby mine?"
He answered,
"Sleepeth in her cradle fine."
Then she went upstairs in the form of the Queen, nursed the baby, shook up its little bed, covered it over, and then swam away again down the gutter in the shape of a duck.
She came thus for two nights; on the third, she said to the scullion, "Go and tell the King to take his sword and swing it three times over me on the threshold."
Then the scullion ran and told this to the King, who came with his sword and swung it thrice over the spirit, and at the third time, his wife stood before him strong, living, and healthy as she had been before.
Thereupon the King was full of great joy, but he kept the Queen hidden in a chamber until the Sunday, when the baby was to be christened.
And when it was christened he said, "What does a person deserve who drags another out of bed and throws him in the water?"
"The wretch deserves nothing better," answered the old woman, "than to be taken and put in a barrel stuck full of nails, and rolled down hill into the water."
"Then," said the King, "Thou hast pronounced thine own sentence;" and he ordered such a barrel to be brought, and the old woman to be put into it with her daughter, and then the top was hammered on, and the barrel rolled down hill until it went into the river.
Let no one ever say that a poor tailor cannot do great things and win high honors; all that is needed is that he should go to the right smithy, and what is of most consequence, that he should have good luck.
A civil, adroit tailor"s apprentice once went out travelling, and came into a great forest, and, as he did not know the way, he lost himself.
Night fell, and nothing was left for him to do, but to seek a bed in this painful solitude.
He might certainly have found a good bed on the soft moss, but the fear of wild beasts let him have no rest there, and at last he was forced to make up his mind to spend the night in a tree.
He sought out a high oak, climbed up to the top of it, and thanked God that he had his goose with him, for otherwise the wind which blew over the top of the tree would have carried him away.
After he had spent some hours in the darkness, not without fear and trembling, he saw at a very short distance the glimmer of a light, and as he thought that a human habitation might be there, where he would be better off than on the branches of a tree, he got carefully down and went towards the light.
It guided him to a small hut that was woven together of reeds and rushes.
He knocked boldly, the door opened, and by the light which came forth he saw a little hoary old man who wore a coat made of bits of colored stuff sewn together.
"Who are you, and what do you want?" asked the man in a grumbling voice.
"I am a poor tailor," he answered, "whom night has surprised here in the wilderness, and I earnestly beg you to take me into your hut until morning."
"Go your way," replied the old man in a surly voice, "I will have nothing to do with runagates; seek for yourself a shelter elsewhere."
After these words he was about to slip into his hut again, but the tailor held him so tightly by the corner of his coat, and pleaded so piteously, that the old man, who was not so ill-natured as he wished to appear, was at last softened, and took him into the hut with him where he gave him something to eat, and then pointed out to him a very good bed in a corner.
The weary tailor needed no rocking; but slept sweetly till morning, but even then would not have thought of getting up, if he had not been aroused by a great noise.
A violent sound of screaming and roaring forced its way through the thin walls of the hut.
The tailor, full of unwonted courage, jumped up, put his clothes on in haste, and hurried out.
Then close by the hut, he saw a great black bull and a beautiful stag, which were just preparing for a violent struggle.
They rushed at each other with such extreme rage that the ground shook with their trampling, and the air resounded with their cries.
For a long time it was uncertain which of the two would gain the victory; at length the stag thrust his horns into his adversary"s body, whereupon the bull fell to the earth with a terrific roar, and was thoroughly despatched by a few strokes from the stag.
The tailor, who had watched the fight with astonishment, was still standing there motionless, when the stag in full career bounded up to him, and before he could escape, caught him up on his great horns.
He had not much time to collect his thoughts, for it went in a swift race over stock and stone, mountain and valley, wood and meadow.
He held with both hands to the tops of the horns, and resigned himself to his fate.
It seemed, however, to him just as if he were flying away.
At length the stag stopped in front of a wall of rock, and gently let the tailor down.
The tailor, more dead than alive, required a longer time than that to come to himself.
When he had in some degree recovered, the stag, which had remained standing by him, pushed its horns with such force against a door which was in the rock, that it sprang open.
Flames of fire shot forth, after which followed a great smoke, which hid the stag from his sight.
The tailor did not know what to do, or whither to turn, in order to get out of this desert and back to human beings again.
Whilst he was standing thus undecided, a voice sounded out of the rock, which cried to him, "Enter without fear, no evil shall befall you thee."
He hesitated, but driven by a mysterious force, he obeyed the voice and went through the iron-door into a large spacious hall, whose ceiling, walls and floor were made of shining polished square stones, on each of which were cut letters which were unknown to him.
He looked at everything full of admiration, and was on the point of going out again, when he once more heard the voice which said to him, "Step on the stone which lies in the middle of the hall, and great good fortune awaits thee."
His courage had already grown so great that he obeyed the order.
The stone began to give way under his feet, and sank slowly down into the depths.
When it was once more firm, and the tailor looked round, he found himself in a hall which in size resembled the former.
Here, however, there was more to look at and to admire.
Hollow places were cut in the walls, in which stood vases of transparent glass which were filled with colored spirit or with a bluish vapour.
On the floor of the hall two great glass chests stood opposite to each other, which at once excited his curiosity.
When he went to one of them he saw inside it a handsome structure like a castle surrounded by farm-buildings, stables and barns, and a quantity of other good things.
Everything was small, but exceedingly carefully and delicately made, and seemed to be cut out by a dexterous hand with the greatest exactitude.
He might not have turned away his eyes from the consideration of this rarity for some time, if the voice had not once more made itself heard.
It ordered him to turn round and look at the glass chest which was standing opposite.
How his admiration increased when he saw therein a maiden of the greatest beauty!
She lay as if asleep, and was wrapped in her long fair hair as in a precious mantle.
Her eyes were closely shut, but the brightness of her complexion and a ribbon which her breathing moved to and fro, left no doubt that she was alive.
The tailor was looking at the beauty with beating heart, when she suddenly opened her eyes, and started up at the sight of him in joyful terror.
"Just Heaven!" cried she, "my deliverance is at hand!
Quick, quick, help me out of my prison; if thou pushest back the bolt of this glass coffin, then I shall be free."
The tailor obeyed without delay, and she immediately raised up the glass lid, came out and hastened into the corner of the hall, where she covered herself with a large cloak.
Then she seated herself on a stone, ordered the young man to come to her, and after she had imprinted a friendly kiss on his lips, she said, "My long-desired deliverer, kind Heaven has guided thee to me, and put an end to my sorrows.
On the self- same day when they end, shall thy happiness begin.
Thou art the husband chosen for me by Heaven, and shalt pass thy life in unbroken joy, loved by me, and rich to overflowing in every earthly possession.
Seat thyself, and listen to the story of my life:
"I am the daughter of a rich count.
My parents died when I was still in my tender youth, and recommended me in their last will to my elder brother, by whom I was brought up.
We loved each other so tenderly, and were so alike in our way of thinking and our inclinations, that we both embraced the resolution never to marry, but to stay together to the end of our lives.
In our house there was no lack of company; neighbors and friends visited us often, and we showed the greatest hospitality to every one.
So it came to pass one evening that a stranger came riding to our castle, and, under pretext of not being able to get on to the next place, begged for shelter for the night.
We granted his request with ready courtesy, and he entertained us in the most agreeable manner during supper by conversation intermingled with stories.
My brother liked the stranger so much that he begged him to spend a couple of days with us, to which, after some hesitation, he consented.
We did not rise from table until late in the night, the stranger was shown to room, and I hastened, as I was tired, to lay my limbs in my soft bed.
Hardly had I slept for a short time, when the sound of faint and delightful music awoke me.
As I could not conceive from whence it came, I wanted to summon my waiting-maid who slept in the next room, but to my astonishment I found that speech was taken away from me by an unknown force.
I felt as if a mountain were weighing down my breast, and was unable to make the very slightest sound.
In the meantime, by the light of my night-lamp, I saw the stranger enter my room through two doors which were fast bolted.
He came to me and said, that by magic arts which were at his command, he had caused the lovely music to sound in order to awaken me, and that he now forced his way through all fastenings with the intention of offering me his hand and heart.
My repugnance to his magic arts was, however, so great, that I vouchsafed him no answer.
He remained for a time standing without moving, apparently with the idea of waiting for a favorable decision, but as I continued to keep silence, he angrily declared he would revenge himself and find means to punish my pride, and left the room.
I passed the night in the greatest disquietude, and only fell asleep towards morning.
When I awoke, I hurried to my brother, but did not find him in his room, and the attendants told me that he had ridden forth with the stranger to the chase by daybreak.
"I at once suspected nothing good.
I dressed myself quickly, ordered my palfrey to be saddled, and accompanied only by one servant, rode full gallop to the forest.
The servant fell with his horse, and could not follow me, for the horse had broken its foot.
I pursued my way without halting, and in a few minutes I saw the stranger coming towards me with a beautiful stag which he led by a cord.
I asked him where he had left my brother, and how he had come by this stag, out of whose great eyes I saw tears flowing.
Instead of answering me, he began to laugh loudly.
I fell into a great rage at this, pulled out a pistol and discharged it at the monster; but the ball rebounded from his breast and went into my horse"s head.
I fell to the ground, and the stranger muttered some words which deprived me of consciousness.
"When I came to my senses again I found myself in this underground cave in a glass coffin.
The magician appeared once again, and said he had changed my brother into a stag, my castle with all that belonged to it, diminished in size by his arts, he had shut up in the other glass chest, and my people, who were all turned into smoke, he had confined in glass bottles.
He told me that if I would now comply with his wish, it was an easy thing for him to put everything back in its former state, as he had nothing to do but open the vessels, and everything would return once more to its natural form.
I answered him as little as I had done the first time.
He vanished and left me in my prison, in which a deep sleep came on me.
Amongst the visions which passed before my eyes, that was the most comforting in which a young man came and set me free, and when I opened my eyes to-day I saw thee, and beheld my dream fulfilled.
Help me to accomplish the other things which happened in those visions.
The first is that we lift the glass chest in which my castle is enclosed, on to that broad stone."
As soon as the stone was laden, it began to rise up on high with the maiden and the young man, and mounted through the opening of the ceiling into the upper hall, from whence they then could easily reach the open air.
Here the maiden opened the lid, and it was marvellous to behold how the castle, the houses, and the farm buildings which were enclosed, stretched themselves out and grew to their natural size with the greatest rapidity.
After this, the maiden and the tailor returned to the cave beneath the earth, and had the vessels which were filled with smoke carried up by the stone.
The maiden had scarcely opened the bottles when the blue smoke rushed out and changed itself into living men, in whom she recognized her servants and her people.
Her joy was still more increased when her brother, who had killed the magician in the form of the bull, came out of the forest towards them in his human form, and on the self-same day the maiden, in accordance with her promise, gave her hand at the altar to the lucky tailor.
There was once on a time a poor man, who could no longer support his only son.
Then said the son, "Dear father, things go so badly with us that I am a burden to you.
I would rather go away and see how I can earn my bread."
So the father gave him his blessing, and with great sorrow took leave of him.
At this time the King of a mighty empire was at war, and the youth took service with him, and with him went out to fight.
And when he came before the enemy, there was a battle, and great danger, and it rained shot until his comrades fell on all sides, and when the leader also was killed, those left were about to take flight, but the youth stepped forth, spoke boldly to them, and cried, "We will not let our fatherland be ruined!"
Then the others followed him, and he pressed on and conquered the enemy.
When the King heard that he owed the victory to him alone, he raised him above all the others, gave him great treasures, and made him the first in the kingdom.
The King had a daughter who was very beautiful, but she was also very strange.
She had made a vow to take no one as her lord and husband who did not promise to let himself be buried alive with her if she died first.
"If he loves me with all his heart," said she, "of what use will life be to him afterwards?"
On her side she would do the same, and if he died first, would go down to the grave with him.
This strange oath had up to this time frightened away all wooers, but the youth became so charmed with her beauty that he cared for nothing, but asked her father for her.
"But dost thou know what thou must promise?" said the King.
"I must be buried with her," he replied, "if I outlive her, but my love is so great that I do not mind the danger."
Then the King consented, and the wedding was solemnized with great splendour.
They lived now for a while happy and contented with each other, and then it befell that the young Queen was attacked by a severe illness, and no physician could save her.
And as she lay there dead, the young King remembered what he had been obliged to promise, and was horrified at having to lie down alive in the grave, but there was no escape.
The King had placed sentries at all the gates, and it was not possible to avoid his fate.
When the day came when the corpse was to be buried, he was taken down into the royal vault with it and then the door was shut and bolted.
Near the coffin stood a table on which were four candles, four loaves of bread, and four bottles of wine, and when this provision came to an end, he would have to die of hunger.
And now he sat there full of pain and grief, ate every day only a little piece of bread, drank only a mouthful of wine, and nevertheless saw death daily drawing nearer.
Whilst he thus gazed before him, he saw a snake creep out of a corner of the vault and approach the dead body.
And as he thought it came to gnaw at it, he drew his sword and said, "As long as I live, thou shalt not touch her," and hewed the snake in three pieces.
After a time a second snake crept out of the hole, and when it saw the other lying dead and cut in pieces, it went back, but soon came again with three green leaves in its mouth.
Then it took the three pieces of the snake, laid them together, as they ought to go, and placed one of the leaves on each wound.
Immediately the severed parts joined themselves together, the snake moved, and became alive again, and both of them hastened away together.
The leaves were left lying on the ground, and a desire came into the mind of the unhappy man who had been watching all this, to know if the wondrous power of the leaves which had brought the snake to life again, could not likewise be of service to a human being.
So he picked up the leaves and laid one of them on the mouth of his dead wife, and the two others on her eyes.
And hardly had he done this than the blood stirred in her veins, rose into her pale face, and coloured it again.
Then she drew breath, opened her eyes, and said, "Ah, God, where am I?"
"Thou art with me, dear wife," he answered, and told her how everything had happened, and how he had brought her back again to life.
Then he gave her some wine and bread, and when she had regained her strength, he raised her up and they went to the door and knocked, and called so loudly that the sentries heard it, and told the King.
The King came down himself and opened the door, and there he found both strong and well, and rejoiced with them that now all sorrow was over.
The young King, however, took the three snake-leaves with him, gave them to a servant and said, "Keep them for me carefully, and carry them constantly about thee; who knows in what trouble they may yet be of service to us!"
A change had, however, taken place in his wife; after she had been restored to life, it seemed as if all love for her husband had gone out of her heart.
After some time, when he wanted to make a voyage over the sea, to visit his old father, and they had gone on board a ship, she forgot the great love and fidelity which he had shown her, and which had been the means of rescuing her from death, and conceived a wicked inclination for the skipper.
And once when the young King lay there asleep, she called in the skipper and seized the sleeper by the head, and the skipper took him by the feet, and thus they threw him down into the sea.
When the shameful deed was done, she said, "Now let us return home, and say that he died on the way.
I will extol and praise thee so to my father that he will marry me to thee, and make thee the heir to his crown."
But the faithful servant who had seen all that they did, unseen by them, unfastened a little boat from the ship, got into it, sailed after his master, and let the traitors go on their way.
He fished up the dead body, and by the help of the three snake-leaves which he carried about with him, and laid on the eyes and mouth, he fortunately brought the young King back to life.
They both rowed with all their strength day and night, and their little boat flew so swiftly that they reached the old King before the others did.
He was astonished when he saw them come alone, and asked what had happened to them.
When he learnt the wickedness of his daughter he said, "I cannot believe that she has behaved so ill, but the truth will soon come to light," and bade both go into a secret chamber and keep themselves hidden from every one.
Soon afterwards the great ship came sailing in, and the godless woman appeared before her father with a troubled countenance.
He said, "Why dost thou come back alone?
Where is thy husband?"
"Ah, dear father," she replied, "I come home again in great grief; during the voyage, my husband became suddenly ill and died, and if the good skipper had not given me his help, it would have gone ill with me.
He was present at his death, and can tell you all."
The King said, "I will make the dead alive again," and opened the chamber, and bade the two come out.
When the woman saw her husband, she was thunderstruck, and fell on her knees and begged for mercy.
The King said, "There is no mercy.
He was ready to die with thee and restored thee to life again, but thou hast murdered him in his sleep, and shalt receive the reward that thou deservest."
Then she was placed with her accomplice in a ship which had been pierced with holes, and sent out to sea, where they soon sank amid the waves.
There was once a King"s son who was seized with a desire to travel about the world, and took no one with him but a faithful servant.
One day he came to a great forest, and when darkness overtook him he could find no shelter, and knew not where to pass the night.
Then he saw a girl who was going towards a small house, and when he came nearer, he saw that the maiden was young and beautiful.
He spoke to her, and said, "Dear child, can I and my servant find shelter for the night in the little house?"
"Oh, yes," said the girl in a sad voice, "that you certainly can, but I do not advise you to venture it.
Do not go in."
"Why not?" asked the King"s son.
The maiden sighed and said, "My step-mother practises wicked arts; she is ill-disposed toward strangers."
Then he saw very well that he had come to the house of a witch, but as it was dark, and he could not go farther, and also was not afraid, he entered.
The old woman was sitting in an armchair by the fire, and looked at the stranger with her red eyes.
"Good evening," growled she, and pretended to be quite friendly.
"Take a seat and rest yourselves."
She blew up the fire on which she was cooking something in a small pot.
The daughter warned the two to be prudent, to eat nothing, and drink nothing, for the old woman brewed evil drinks.
They slept quietly until early morning.
When they were making ready for their departure, and the King"s son was already seated on his horse, the old woman said, "Stop a moment, I will first hand you a parting draught."
Whilst she fetched it, the King"s son rode away, and the servant who had to buckle his saddle tight, was the only one present when the wicked witch came with the drink.
"Take that to your master," said she.
But at that instant the glass broke and the poison spirted on the horse, and it was so strong that the animal immediately fell down dead.
The servant ran after his master and told him what had happened, but would not leave his saddle behind him, and ran back to fetch it.
When, however, he came to the dead horse a raven was already sitting on it devouring it.
"Who knows whether we shall find anything better to-day?" said the servant; so he killed the raven, and took it with him.
And now they journeyed onwards into the forest the whole day, but could not get out of it.
By nightfall they found an inn and entered it.
The servant gave the raven to the innkeeper to make ready for supper.
They had, however, stumbled on a den of murderers, and during the darkness twelve of these came, intending to kill the strangers and rob them.
Before they set about this work, they sat down to supper, and the innkeeper and the witch sat down with them, and together they ate a dish of soup in which was cut up the flesh of the raven.
Hardly, however, had they swallowed a couple of mouthfuls, before they all fell down dead, for the raven had communicated to them the poison from the horse-flesh.
There was no no one else left in the house but the innkeeper"s daughter, who was honest, and had taken no part in their godless deeds.
She opened all doors to the stranger and showed him the heaped-up treasures.
But the King"s son said she might keep everything, he would have none of it, and rode onwards with his servant.
After they had traveled about for a long time, they came to a town in which was a beautiful but proud princess, who had caused it to be proclaimed that whosoever should set her a riddle which she could not guess, that man should be her husband; but if she guessed it, his head must be cut off.
She had three days to guess it in, but was so clever that she always found the answer to the riddle given her, before the appointed time.
Nine suitors had already perished in this manner, when the King"s son arrived, and blinded by her great beauty, was willing to stake his life for it.
Then he went to her and laid his riddle before her.
"What is this?" said he, "One slew none, and yet slew twelve."
She did not know what that was, she thought and thought, but she could not find out, she opened her riddle-books, but it was not in them---in short, her wisdom was at an end.
As she did not know how to help herself, she ordered her maid to creep into the lord"s sleeping-chamber, and listen to his dreams, and thought that he would perhaps speak in his sleep and discover the riddle.
But the clever servant had placed himself in the bed instead of his master, and when the maid came there, he tore off from her the mantle in which she had wrapped herself, and chased her out with rods.
The second night the King"s daughter sent her maid-in-waiting, who was to see if she could succeed better in listening, but the servant took her mantle also away from her, and hunted her out with rods.
Now the master believed himself safe for the third night, and lay down in his own bed.
Then came the princess herself, and she had put on a misty-grey mantle, and she seated herself near him.
And when she thought that he was asleep and dreaming, she spoke to him, and hoped that he would answer in his sleep, as many do, but he was awake, and understood and heard everything quite well.
Then she asked, "One slew none, what is that?"
He replied, "A raven, which ate of a dead and poisoned horse, and died of it."
She inquired further, "And yet slew twelve, what is that?"
He answered, "That means twelve murderers, who ate the raven and died of it."
When she knew the answer to the riddle she wanted to steal away, but he held her mantle so fast that she was forced to leave it behind her.
Next morning, the King"s daughter announced that she had guessed the riddle, and sent for the twelve judges and expounded it before them.
But the youth begged for a hearing, and said, "She stole into my room in the night and questioned me, otherwise she could not have discovered it."
The judges said, "Bring us a proof of this."
Then were the three mantles brought thither by the servant, and when the judges saw the misty-grey one which the King"s daughter usually wore, they said, "Let the mantle be embroidered with gold and silver, and then it will be your wedding-mantle.
There was once a poor woman who gave birth to a little son; and as he came into the world with a caul on, it was predicted that in his fourteenth year he would have the King"s daughter for his wife.
It happened that soon afterwards the King came into the village, and no one knew that he was the King, and when he asked the people what news there was, they answered, "A child has just been born with a caul on; whatever any one so born undertakes turns out well.
It is prophesied, too, that in his fourteenth year he will have the King"s daughter for his wife."
The King, who had a bad heart, and was angry about the prophecy, went to the parents, and, seeming quite friendly, said, "You poor people, let me have your child, and I will take care of it."
At first they refused, but when the stranger offered them a large amount of gold for it, and they thought, "It is a luck-child, and everything must turn out well for it," they at last consented, and gave him the child.
The King put it in a box and rode away with it until he came to a deep piece of water; then he threw the box into it and thought, "I have freed my daughter from her unlooked-for suitor."
The box, however, did not sink, but floated like a boat, and not a drop of water made its way into it.
And it floated to within two miles of the King"s chief city, where there was a mill, and it came to a stand-still at the mill-dam.
A miller"s boy, who by good luck was standing there, noticed it and pulled it out with a hook, thinking that he had found a great treasure, but when he opened it there lay a pretty boy inside, quite fresh and lively.
He took him to the miller and his wife, and as they had no children they were glad, and said, "God has given him to us."
They took great care of the foundling, and he grew up in all goodness.
It happened that once in a storm, the King went into the mill, and he asked the mill-folk if the tall youth was their son.
"No," answered they, "he"s a foundling.
Fourteen years ago he floated down to the mill-dam in a box, and the mill-boy pulled him out of the water."
Then the King knew that it was none other than the luck-child which he had thrown into the water, and he said, "My good people, could not the youth take a letter to the Queen; I will give him two gold pieces as a reward?"
"Just as the King commands," answered they, and they told the boy to hold himself in readiness.
Then the King wrote a letter to the Queen, wherein he said, "As soon as the boy arrives with this letter, let him be killed and buried, and all must be done before I come home."
The boy set out with this letter; but he lost his way, and in the evening came to a large forest.
In the darkness he saw a small light; he went towards it and reached a cottage.
When he went in, an old woman was sitting by the fire quite alone.
She started when she saw the boy, and said, "Whence do you come, and whither are you going?"
"I come from the mill," he answered, "and wish to go to the Queen, to whom I am taking a letter; but as I have lost my way in the forest I should like to stay here over night."
"You poor boy," said the woman, "you have come into a den of thieves, and when they come home they will kill you."
"Let them come," said the boy, "I am not afraid; but I am so tired that I cannot go any farther:" and he stretched himself upon a bench and fell asleep.
Soon afterwards the robbers came, and angrily asked what strange boy was lying there?
"Ah," said the old woman, "it is an innocent child who has lost himself in the forest, and out of pity I have let him come in; he has to take a letter to the Queen."
The robbers opened the letter and read it, and in it was written that the boy as soon as he arrived should be put to death.
Then the hard-hearted robbers felt pity, and their leader tore up the letter and wrote another, saying, that as soon as the boy came, he should be married at once to the King"s daughter.
Then they let him lie quietly on the bench until the next morning, and when he awoke they gave him the letter, and showed him the right way.
And the Queen, when she had received the letter and read it, did as was written in it, and had a splendid wedding-feast prepared, and the King"s daughter was married to the luck-child, and as the youth was handsome and agreeable she lived with him in joy and contentment.
After some time the King returned to his palace and saw that the prophecy was fulfilled, and the luck-child married to his daughter.
"How has that come to pass?" said he; "I gave quite another order in my letter."
So the Queen gave him the letter, and said that he might see for himself what was written in it.
The King read the letter and saw quite well that it had been exchanged for the other.
He asked the youth what had become of the letter entrusted to him, and why he had brought another instead of it.
"I know nothing about it," answered he; "it must have been changed in the night, when I slept in the forest."
The King said in a passion, "You shall not have everything quite so much your own way; whosoever marries my daughter must fetch me from hell three golden hairs from the head of the devil; bring me what I want, and you shall keep my daughter."
In this way the King hoped to be rid of him for ever.
But the luck-child answered, "I will fetch the golden hairs, I am not afraid of the Devil;" thereupon he took leave of them and began his journey.
The road led him to a large town, where the watchman by the gates asked him what his trade was, and what he knew.
"I know everything," answered the luck-child.
"Then you can do us a favour," said the watchman, "if you will tell us why our market-fountain, which once flowed with wine has become dry, and no longer gives even water?"
"That you shall know," answered he; "only wait until I come back."
Then he went farther and came to another town, and there also the gatekeeper asked him what was his trade, and what he knew.
"I know everything," answered he.
"Then you can do us a favour and tell us why a tree in our town which once bore golden apples now does not even put forth leaves?"
"You shall know that," answered he; "only wait until I come back."
Then he went on and came to a wide river over which he must go.
The ferryman asked him what his trade was, and what he knew.
"I know everything," answered he.
"Then you can do me a favour," said the ferryman, "and tell me why I must always be rowing backwards and forwards, and am never set free?"
"You shall know that," answered he; "only wait until I come back."
When he had crossed the water he found the entrance to Hell.
It was black and sooty within, and the Devil was not at home, but his grandmother was sitting in a large arm-chair.
"What do you want?" said she to him, but she did not look so very wicked.
"I should like to have three golden hairs from the devil"s head," answered he, "else I cannot keep my wife."
"That is a good deal to ask for," said she; "if the devil comes home and finds you, it will cost you your life; but as I pity you, I will see if I cannot help you."
She changed him into an ant and said, "Creep into the folds of my dress, you will be safe there."
"Yes," answered he, "so far, so good; but there are three things besides that I want to know: why a fountain which once flowed with wine has become dry, and no longer gives even water; why a tree which once bore golden apples does not even put forth leaves; and why a ferry-man must always be going backwards and forwards, and is never set free?"
"Those are difficult questions," answered she, "but only be silent and quiet and pay attention to what the devil says when I pull out the three golden hairs."
As the evening came on, the devil returned home.
No sooner had he entered than he noticed that the air was not pure.
"I smell man"s flesh," said he; "all is not right here."
Then he pried into every corner, and searched, but could not find anything.
His grandmother scolded him.
"It has just been swept," said she, "and everything put in order, and now you are upsetting it again; you have always got man"s flesh in your nose.
Sit down and eat your supper."
When he had eaten and drunk he was tired, and laid his head in his grandmother"s lap, and before long he was fast asleep, snoring and breathing heavily.
Then the old woman took hold of a golden hair, pulled it out, and laid it down near her.
"Oh!" cried the devil, "what are you doing?"
"I have had a bad dream," answered the grandmother, "so I seized hold of your hair."
"What did you dream then?" said the devil.
"I dreamed that a fountain in a market-place from which wine once flowed was dried up, and not even water would flow out of it; what is the cause of it?"
"Oh, ho! if they did but know it," answered the devil; "there is a toad sitting under a stone in the well; if they killed it, the wine would flow again."
He went to sleep again and snored until the windows shook.
Then she pulled the second hair out.
"Ha! what are you doing?" cried the devil angrily.
"Do not take it ill," said she, "I did it in a dream."
"What have you dreamt this time?" asked he.
"I dreamt that in a certain kingdom there stood an apple-tree which had once borne golden apples, but now would not even bear leaves.
What, think you, was the reason?"
"Oh! if they did but know," answered the devil.
"A mouse is gnawing at the root; if they killed this they would have golden apples again, but if it gnaws much longer the tree will wither altogether.
But leave me alone with your dreams: if you disturb me in my sleep again you will get a box on the ear."
The grandmother spoke gently to him until he fell asleep again and snored.
Then she took hold of the third golden hair and pulled it out.
The devil jumped up, roared out, and would have treated her ill if she had not quieted him once more and said, "Who can help bad dreams?"
"What was the dream, then?" asked he, and was quite curious.
"I dreamt of a ferry-man who complained that he must always ferry from one side to the other, and was never released.
What is the cause of it?"
"Ah! the fool," answered the devil; "when any one comes and wants to go across he must put the oar in his hand, and the other man will have to ferry and he will be free."
As the grandmother had plucked out the three golden hairs, and the three questions were answered, she let the old serpent alone, and he slept until daybreak.
When the devil had gone out again the old woman took the ant out of the folds of her dress, and gave the luck-child his human shape again.
"There are the three golden hairs for you," said she.
"What the Devil said to your three questions, I suppose you heard?"
"Yes," answered he, "I heard, and will take care to remember."
"You have what you want," said she, "and now you can go your way."
He thanked the old woman for helping him in his need, and left hell well content that everything had turned out so fortunately.
When he came to the ferry-man he was expected to give the promised answer.
"Ferry me across first," said the luck-child, "and then I will tell you how you can be set free," and when he reached the opposite shore he gave him the devil"s advice: "Next time any one comes, who wants to be ferried over, just put the oar in his hand."
He went on and came to the town wherein stood the unfruitful tree, and there too the watchman wanted an answer.
So he told him what he had heard from the devil: "Kill the mouse which is gnawing at its root, and it will again bear golden apples."
Then the watchman thanked him, and gave him as a reward two asses laden with gold, which followed him.
At last he came to the town whose well was dry.
He told the watchman what the devil had said: "A toad is in the well beneath a stone; you must find it and kill it, and the well will again give wine in plenty."
The watchman thanked him, and also gave him two asses laden with gold.
At last the luck-child got home to his wife, who was heartily glad to see him again, and to hear how well he had prospered in everything.
To the King he took what he had asked for, the devil"s three golden hairs, and when the King saw the four asses laden with gold he was quite content, and said, "Now all the conditions are fulfilled, and you can keep my daughter.
But tell me, dear son-in-law, where did all that gold come from? this is tremendous wealth!"
"I was rowed across a river," answered he, "and got it there; it lies on the shore instead of sand."
"Can I too fetch some of it?" said the King; and he was quite eager about it.
"As much as you like," answered he.
"There is a ferry-man on the river; let him ferry you over, and you can fill your sacks on the other side."
The greedy King set out in all haste, and when he came to the river he beckoned to the ferry-man to put him across.
The ferry-man came and bade him get in, and when they got to the other shore he put the oar in his hand and sprang out.
But from this time forth the King had to ferry, as a punishment for his sins.
Perhaps he is ferrying still?
If he is, it is because no one has taken the oar from him.
A louse and a flea kept house together and were brewing beer in an egg-shell.
Then the little louse fell in and burnt herself.
On this the little flea began to scream loudly.
Then said the little room-door, "Little flea, why art thou screaming?"
"Because the louse has burnt herself."
Then the little door began to creak.
On this a little broom in the corner said, "Why art thou creaking, little door?"
"Have I not reason to creak?"
"The little louse has burnt herself, The little flea is weeping."
So the little broom began to sweep frantically.
Then a little cart passed by and said, "Why art thou sweeping, little broom?"
"Have I not reason to sweep?"
"The little louse has burnt herself, The little flea is weeping,
The little door is creaking."
So the little cart said, "Then I will run," and began to run wildly.
Then said the ash-heap by which it ran, "Why art thou running so, little cart?"
"Have I not reason to run?"
"The little louse has burnt herself, The little flea is weeping,
The little door is creaking, The little broom is sweeping."
The ash-heap said, "Then I will burn furiously," and began to burn in clear flames.
A little tree stood near the ash-heap and said, "Ash-heap, why art thou burning?"
"Have I not reason to burn?"
"The little louse has burnt herself, The little flea is weeping,
The little door is creaking, The little broom is sweeping,
The little cart is running."
The little tree said, "Then I will shake myself," and began to shake herself so that all her leaves fell off; a girl who came up with her water-pitcher saw that, and said, "Little tree, why art thou shaking thyself?"
"Have I not reason to shake myself?"
"The little louse has burnt herself, The little flea is weeping,
The little door is creaking, The little broom is sweeping,
The little cart is running, The little ash-heap is burning."
On this the girl said, "Then I will break my little water-pitcher," and she broke her little water-pitcher.
Then said the little spring from which ran the water, "Girl, why art thou breaking thy water-jug?"
"Have I not reason to break my water-jug?"
"The little louse has burnt herself, The little flea is weeping,
The little door is creaking, The little broom is sweeping,
The little cart is running, The little ash-heap is burning,
The little tree is shaking itself."
"Oh, ho!" said the spring, "then I will begin to flow," and began to flow violently.
And in the water everything was drowned, the girl, the little tree, the little ash-heap, the little cart, the broom, the little door, the little flea, the little louse, all together.
One very fine day it came to pass that the good God wished to enjoy himself in the heavenly garden, and took all the apostles and saints with him, so that no one stayed in heaven but Saint Peter.
The Lord had commanded him to let no one in during his absence, so Peter stood by the door and kept watch.
Before long some one knocked.
Peter asked who was there, and what he wanted?
"I am a poor, honest tailor who prays for admission," replied a smooth voice.
"Honest indeed," said Peter, "like the thief on the gallows!
Thou hast been light-fingered and hast snipped folks" clothes away.
Thou wilt not get into heaven.
The Lord hath forbidden me to let any one in while he is out."
"Come, do be merciful," cried the tailor.
"Little scraps which fall off the table of their own accord are not stolen, and are not worth speaking about.
Look, I am lame, and have blisters on my feet with walking here, I cannot possibly turn back again.
Only let me in, and I will do all the rough work.
I will carry the children, and wash their clothes, and wash and clean the benches on which they have been playing, and patch all their torn clothes."
Saint Peter let himself be moved by pity, and opened the door of heaven just wide enough for the lame tailor to slip his lean body in.
He was forced to sit down in a corner behind the door, and was to stay quietly and peaceably there, in order that the Lord, when he returned, might not observe him and be angry.
The tailor obeyed, but once when Saint Peter went outside the door, he got up, and full of curiosity, went round about into every corner of heaven, and inspected the arrangement of every place.
At length he came to a spot where many beautiful and delightful chairs were standing, and in the midst was a seat all of gold which was set with shining jewels, likewise it was much higher than the other chairs, and a footstool of gold was before it.
It was, however, the seat on which the Lord sat when he was at home, and from which he could see everything which happened on earth.
The tailor stood still, and looked at the seat for a long time, for it pleased him better than all else.
At last he could master his curiosity no longer, and climbed up and seated himself in the chair.
Then he saw everything which was happening on earth, and observed an ugly old woman who was standing washing by the side of a stream, secretly laying two veils on one side for herself.
The sight of this made the tailor so angry that he laid hold of the golden footstool, and threw it down to earth through heaven, at the old thief.
As, however, he could not bring the stool back again, he slipped quietly out of the chair, seated himself in his place behind the door, and behaved as if he had never stirred from the spot.
When the Lord and master came back again with his heavenly companions, he did not see the tailor behind the door, but when he seated himself on his chair the footstool was missing.
He asked Saint Peter what had become of the stool, but he did not know.
Then he asked if he had let anyone come in.
"I know of no one who has been here," answered Peter, "but a lame tailor, who is still sitting behind the door."
Then the Lord had the tailor brought before him, and asked him if he had taken away the stool, and where he had put it?
"Oh, Lord," answered the tailor joyously, "I threw it in my anger down to earth at an old woman whom I saw stealing two veils at the washing."
"Oh, thou knave," said the Lord, "were I to judge as thou judgest, how dost thou think thou couldst have escaped so long?
I should long ago have had no chairs, benches, seats, nay, not even an oven-fork, but should have thrown everything down at the sinners.
Henceforth thou canst stay no longer in heaven, but must go outside the door again.
Then go where thou wilt.
No one shall give punishment here, but I alone, the Lord."
Peter was obliged to take the tailor out of heaven again, and as he had torn shoes, and feet covered with blisters, he took a stick in his hand, and went to "Wait-a-bit," where the good soldiers sit and make merry.
Hard by a great forest dwelt a wood-cutter with his wife, who had an only child, a little girl three years old.
They were so poor, however, that they no longer had daily bread, and did not know how to get food for her.
One morning the wood-cutter went out sorrowfully to his work in the forest, and while he was cutting wood, suddenly there stood before him a tall and beautiful woman with a crown of shining stars on her head, who said to him, "I am the Virgin Mary, mother of the child Jesus.
Thou art poor and needy, bring thy child to me, I will take her with me and be her mother, and care for her."
The wood-cutter obeyed, brought his child, and gave her to the Virgin Mary, who took her up to heaven with her.
There the child fared well, ate sugar-cakes, and drank sweet milk, and her clothes were of gold, and the little angels played with her.
And when she was fourteen years of age, the Virgin Mary called her one day and said, "Dear child, I am about to make a long journey, so take into thy keeping the keys of the thirteen doors of heaven.
Twelve of these thou mayest open, and behold the glory which is within them, but the thirteenth, to which this little key belongs, is forbidden thee.
Beware of opening it, or thou wilt bring misery on thyself."
The girl promised to be obedient, and when the Virgin Mary was gone, she began to examine the dwellings of the kingdom of heaven.
Each day she opened one of them, until she had made the round of the twelve.
In each of them sat one of the Apostles in the midst of a great light, and she rejoiced in all the magnificence and splendour, and the little angels who always accompanied her rejoiced with her.
Then the forbidden door alone remained, and she felt a great desire to know what could be hidden behind it, and said to the angels, "I will not quite open it, and I will not go inside it, but I will unlock it so that we can just see a little through the opening."
"Oh no," said the little angels, "that would be a sin.
The Virgin Mary has forbidden it, and it might easily cause thy unhappiness."
Then she was silent, but the desire in her heart was not stilled, but gnawed there and tormented her, and let her have no rest.
And once when the angels had all gone out, she thought, "Now I am quite alone, and I could peep in.
If I do it, no one will ever know."
She sought out the key, and when she had got it in her hand, she put it in the lock, and when she had put it in, she turned it round as well.
Then the door sprang open, and she saw there the Trinity sitting in fire and splendour.
She stayed there awhile, and looked at everything in amazement; then she touched the light a little with her finger, and her finger became quite golden.
Immediately a great fear fell on her.
She shut the door violently, and ran away.
Her terror too would not quit her, let her do what she might, and her heart beat continually and would not be still; the gold too stayed on her finger, and would not go away, let her rub it and wash it never so much.
It was not long before the Virgin Mary came back from her journey.
She called the girl before her, and asked to have the keys of heaven back.
When the maiden gave her the bunch, the Virgin looked into her eyes and said, "Hast thou not opened the thirteenth door also?"
"No," she replied.
Then she laid her hand on the girl"s heart, and felt how it beat and beat, and saw right well that she had disobeyed her order and had opened the door.
Then she said once again, "Art thou certain that thou hast not done it?"
"Yes," said the girl, for the second time.
Then she perceived the finger which had become golden from touching the fire of heaven, and saw well that the child had sinned, and said for the third time "Hast thou not done it?"
"No," said the girl for the third time.
Then said the Virgin Mary, "Thou hast not obeyed me, and besides that thou hast lied, thou art no longer worthy to be in heaven."
Then the girl fell into a deep sleep, and when she awoke she lay on the earth below, and in the midst of a wilderness.
She wanted to cry out, but she could bring forth no sound.
She sprang up and wanted to run away, but whithersoever she turned herself, she was continually held back by thick hedges of thorns through which she could not break.
In the desert, in which she was imprisoned, there stood an old hollow tree, and this had to be her dwelling-place.
Into this she crept when night came, and here she slept.
Here, too, she found a shelter from storm and rain, but it was a miserable life, and bitterly did she weep when she remembered how happy she had been in heaven, and how the angels had played with her.
Roots and wild berries were her only food, and for these she sought as far as she could go.
In the autumn she picked up the fallen nuts and leaves, and carried them into the hole.
The nuts were her food in winter, and when snow and ice came, she crept amongst the leaves like a poor little animal that she might not freeze.
Before long her clothes were all torn, and one bit of them after another fell off her.
As soon, however, as the sun shone warm again, she went out and sat in front of the tree, and her long hair covered her on all sides like a mantle.
Thus she sat year after year, and felt the pain and the misery of the world.
One day, when the trees were once more clothed in fresh green, the King of the country was hunting in the forest, and followed a roe, and as it had fled into the thicket which shut in this part of the forest, he got off his horse, tore the bushes asunder, and cut himself a path with his sword.
When he had at last forced his way through, he saw a wonderfully beautiful maiden sitting under the tree; and she sat there and was entirely covered with her golden hair down to her very feet.
He stood still and looked at her full of surprise, then he spoke to her and said, "Who art thou?
Why art thou sitting here in the wilderness?"
But she gave no answer, for she could not open her mouth.
The King continued, "Wilt thou go with me to my castle?"
Then she just nodded her head a little.
The King took her in his arms, carried her to his horse, and rode home with her, and when he reached the royal castle he caused her to be dressed in beautiful garments, and gave her all things in abundance.
Although she could not speak, she was still so beautiful and charming that he began to love her with all his heart, and it was not long before he married her.
After a year or so had passed, the Queen brought a son into the world.
Thereupon the Virgin Mary appeared to her in the night when she lay in her bed alone, and said, "If thou wilt tell the truth and confess that thou didst unlock the forbidden door, I will open thy mouth and give thee back thy speech, but if thou perseverest in thy sin, and deniest obstinately, I will take thy new-born child away with me."
Then the queen was permitted to answer, but she remained hard, and said, "No, I did not open the forbidden door;" and the Virgin Mary took the new-born child from her arms, and vanished with it.
Next morning when the child was not to be found, it was whispered among the people that the Queen was a man-eater, and had killed her own child.
She heard all this and could say nothing to the contrary, but the King would not believe it, for he loved her so much.
When a year had gone by the Queen again bore a son, and in the night the Virgin Mary again came to her, and said, "If thou wilt confess that thou openedst the forbidden door, I will give thee thy child back and untie thy tongue; but if you continuest in sin and deniest it, I will take away with me this new child also."
Then the Queen again said, "No, I did not open the forbidden door;" and the Virgin took the child out of her arms, and away with her to heaven.
Next morning, when this child also had disappeared, the people declared quite loudly that the Queen had devoured it, and the King"s councillors demanded that she should be brought to justice.
The King, however, loved her so dearly that he would not believe it, and commanded the councillors under pain of death not to say any more about it.
The following year the Queen gave birth to a beautiful little daughter, and for the third time the Virgin Mary appeared to her in the night and said, "Follow me."
She took the Queen by the hand and led her to heaven, and showed her there her two eldest children, who smiled at her, and were playing with the ball of the world.
When the Queen rejoiced thereat, the Virgin Mary said, "Is thy heart not yet softened?
If thou wilt own that thou openedst the forbidden door, I will give thee back thy two little sons."
But for the third time the Queen answered, "No, I did not open the forbidden door."
Then the Virgin let her sink down to earth once more, and took from her likewise her third child.
Next morning, when the loss was reported abroad, all the people cried loudly, "The Queen is a man-eater.
She must be judged," and the King was no longer able to restrain his councillors.
Thereupon a trial was held, and as she could not answer, and defend herself, she was condemned to be burnt alive.
The wood was got together, and when she was fast bound to the stake, and the fire began to burn round about her, the hard ice of pride melted, her heart was moved by repentance, and she thought, "If I could but confess before my death that I opened the door."
Then her voice came back to her, and she cried out loudly, "Yes, Mary, I did it;" and straight-way rain fell from the sky and extinguished the flames of fire, and a light broke forth above her, and the Virgin Mary descended with the two little sons by her side, and the new-born daughter in her arms.
She spoke kindly to her, and said, "He who repents his sin and acknowledges it, is forgiven."
Then she gave her the three children, untied her tongue, and granted her happiness for her whole life.
Once upon a time, a certain King was hunting in a great forest, and he chased a wild beast so eagerly that none of his attendants could follow him.
When evening drew near he stopped and looked around him, and then he saw that he had lost his way.
He sought a way out, but could find none.
Then he perceived an aged woman with a head which nodded perpetually, who came towards him, but she was a witch.
"Good woman," said he to her, "Can you not show me the way through the forest?"
"Oh, yes, Lord King," she answered, "that I certainly can, but on one condition, and if you do not fulfil that, you will never get out of the forest, and will die of hunger in it."
"What kind of condition is it?" asked the King.
"I have a daughter," said the old woman, "who is as beautiful as any one in the world, and well deserves to be your consort, and if you will make her your Queen, I will show you the way out of the forest."
In the anguish of his heart the King consented, and the old woman led him to her little hut, where her daughter was sitting by the fire.
She received the King as if she had been expecting him, and he saw that she was very beautiful, but still she did not please him, and he could not look at her without secret horror.
After he had taken the maiden up on his horse, the old woman showed him the way, and the King reached his royal palace again, where the wedding was celebrated.
The King had already been married once, and had by his first wife, seven children, six boys and a girl, whom he loved better than anything else in the world.
As he now feared that the step-mother might not treat them well, and even do them some injury, he took them to a lonely castle which stood in the midst of a forest.
It lay so concealed, and the way was so difficult to find that he himself would not have found it, if a wise woman had not given him a ball of yarn with wonderful properties.
When he threw it down before him, it unrolled itself and showed him his path.
The King, however, went so frequently away to his dear children that the Queen observed his absence; she was curious and wanted to know what he did when he was quite alone in the forest.
She gave a great deal of money to his servants, and they betrayed the secret to her, and told her likewise of the ball which alone could point out the way.
And now she knew no rest until she had learnt where the King kept the ball of yarn, and then she made little shirts of white silk, and as she had learnt the art of witchcraft from her mother, she sewed a charm inside them.
And once when the King had ridden forth to hunt, she took the little shirts and went into the forest, and the ball showed her the way.
The children, who saw from a distance that some one was approaching, thought that their dear father was coming to them, and full of joy, ran to meet him.
Then she threw one of the little shirts over each of them, and no sooner had the shirts touched their bodies than they were changed into swans, and flew away over the forest.
The Queen went home quite delighted, and thought she had got rid of her step-children, but the girl had not run out with her brothers, and the Queen knew nothing about her.
Next day the King went to visit his children, but he found no one but the little girl.
"Where are thy brothers?" asked the King.
"Alas, dear father," she answered, "they have gone away and left me alone!" and she told him that she had seen from her little window how her brothers had flown away over the forest in the shape of swans, and she showed him the feathers, which they had let fall in the courtyard, and which she had picked up.
The King mourned, but he did not think that the Queen had done this wicked deed, and as he feared that the girl would also be stolen away from him, he wanted to take her away with him.
But she was afraid of her step-mother, and entreated the King to let her stay just this one night more in the forest castle.
The poor girl thought, "I can no longer stay here.
I will go and seek my brothers."
And when night came, she ran away, and went straight into the forest.
She walked the whole night long, and next day also without stopping, until she could go no farther for weariness.
Then she saw a forest-hut, and went into it, and found a room with six little beds, but she did not venture to get into one of them, but crept under one, and lay down on the hard ground, intending to pass the night there.
Just before sunset, however, she heard a rustling, and saw six swans come flying in at the window.
They alighted on the ground and blew at each other, and blew all the feathers off, and their swan"s skins stripped off like a shirt.
Then the maiden looked at them and recognized her brothers, was glad and crept forth from beneath the bed.
The brothers were not less delighted to see their little sister, but their joy was of short duration.
"Here canst thou not abide," they said to her.
"This is a shelter for robbers, if they come home and find thee, they will kill thee."
"But can you not protect me?" asked the little sister.
"No," they replied, "only for one quarter of an hour each evening can we lay aside our swan"s skins and have during that time our human form; after that, we are once more turned into swans."
The little sister wept and said, "Can you not be set free?"
"Alas, no," they answered, "the conditions are too hard!
For six years thou mayst neither speak nor laugh, and in that time thou must sew together six little shirts of starwort for us.
And if one single word falls from thy lips, all thy work will be lost."
And when the brothers had said this, the quarter of an hour was over, and they flew out of the window again as swans.
The maiden, however, firmly resolved to deliver her brothers, even if it should cost her her life.
She left the hut, went into the midst of the forest, seated herself on a tree, and there passed the night.
Next morning she went out and gathered starwort and began to sew.
She could not speak to any one, and she had no inclination to laugh; she sat there and looked at nothing but her work.
When she had already spent a long time there it came to pass that the King of the country was hunting in the forest, and his huntsmen came to the tree on which the maiden was sitting.
They called to her and said, "Who art thou?"
But she made no answer.
"Come down to us," said they.
"We will not do thee any harm."
She only shook her head.
As they pressed her further with questions she threw her golden necklace down to them, and thought to content them thus.
They, however, did not cease, and then she threw her girdle down to them, and as this also was to no purpose, her garters, and by degrees everything that she had on that she could do without until she had nothing left but her shift.
The huntsmen, however, did not let themselves be turned aside by that, but climbed the tree and fetched the maiden down and led her before the King.
The King asked, "Who art thou?
What art thou doing on the tree?"
But she did not answer.
He put the question in every language that he knew, but she remained as mute as a fish.
As she was so beautiful, the King"s heart was touched, and he was smitten with a great love for her.
He put his mantle on her, took her before him on his horse, and carried her to his castle.
Then he caused her to be dressed in rich garments, and she shone in her beauty like bright daylight, but no word could be drawn from her.
He placed her by his side at table, and her modest bearing and courtesy pleased him so much that he said, "She is the one whom I wish to marry, and no other woman in the world."
And after some days he united himself to her.
The King, however, had a wicked mother who was dissatisfied with this marriage and spoke ill of the young Queen.
"Who knows," said she, "from whence the creature who can"t speak, comes?
She is not worthy of a king!"
After a year had passed, when the Queen brought her first child into the world, the old woman took it away from her, and smeared her mouth with blood as she slept.
Then she went to the King and accused the Queen of being a man-eater.
The King would not believe it, and would not suffer any one to do her any injury.
She, however, sat continually sewing at the shirts, and cared for nothing else.
The next time, when she again bore a beautiful boy, the false step-mother used the same treachery, but the King could not bring himself to give credit to her words.
He said, "She is too pious and good to do anything of that kind; if she were not dumb, and could defend herself, her innocence would come to light."
But when the old woman stole away the newly-born child for the third time, and accused the Queen, who did not utter one word of defence, the King could do no otherwise than deliver her over to justice, and she was sentenced to suffer death by fire.
When the day came for the sentence to be executed, it was the last day of the six years during which she was not to speak or laugh, and she had delivered her dear brothers from the power of the enchantment.
The six shirts were ready, only the left sleeve of the sixth was wanting.
When, therefore, she was led to the stake, she laid the shirts on her arm, and when she stood on high and the fire was just going to be lighted, she looked around and six swans came flying through the air towards her.
Then she saw that her deliverance was near, and her heart leapt with joy.
The swans swept towards her and sank down so that she could throw the shirts over them, and as they were touched by them, their swan"s skins fell off, and her brothers stood in their own bodily form before her, and were vigorous and handsome.
The youngest only lacked his left arm, and had in the place of it a swan"s wing on his shoulder.
They embraced and kissed each other, and the Queen went to the King, who was greatly moved, and she began to speak and said, "Dearest husband, now I may speak and declare to thee that I am innocent, and falsely accused."
And she told him of the treachery of the old woman who had taken away her three children and hidden them.
Then to the great joy of the King they were brought thither, and as a punishment, the wicked step-mother was bound to the stake, and burnt to ashes.
But the King and the Queen with their six brothers lived many years in happiness and peace.
The wolf had the fox with him, and whatsoever the wolf wished, that the fox was compelled to do, for he was the weaker, and he would gladly have been rid of his master.
It chanced that once as they were going through the forest, the wolf said, "Red-fox, get me something to eat, or else I will eat thee thyself."
Then the fox answered, "I know a farm-yard where there are two young lambs; if thou art inclined, we will fetch one of them."
That suited the wolf, and they went thither, and the fox stole the little lamb, took it to the wolf, and went away.
The wolf devoured it, but was not satisfied with one; he wanted the other as well, and went to get it.
As, however, he did it so awkwardly, the mother of the little lamb heard him, and began to cry out terribly, and to bleat so that the farmer came running there.
They found the wolf, and beat him so mercilessly, that he went to the fox limping and howling.
"Thou hast misled me finely," said he; "I wanted to fetch the other lamb, and the country folks surprised me, and have beaten me to a jelly."
The fox replied, "Why art thou such a glutton?"
Next day they again went into the country, and the greedy wolf once more said, "Red-fox, get me something to eat, or I will eat thee thyself."
Then answered the fox, "I know a farm-house where the wife is baking pancakes to-night; we will get some of them for ourselves."
They went there, and the fox slipped round the house, and peeped and sniffed about until he discovered where the dish was, and then drew down six pancakes and carried them to the wolf.
"There is something for thee to eat," said he to him, and then went his way.
The wolf swallowed down the pancakes in an instant, and said, "They make one want more," and went thither and tore the whole dish down so that it broke in pieces.
This made such a great noise that the woman came out, and when she saw the wolf she called the people, who hurried there, and beat him as long as their sticks would hold together, till with two lame legs, and howling loudly, he got back to the fox in the forest.
"How abominably thou hast misled me!" cried he, "the peasants caught me, and tanned my skin for me."
But the fox replied, "Why art thou such a glutton?"
On the third day, when they were out together, and the wolf could only limp along painfully, he again said, "Red-fox, get me something to eat, or I will eat thee thyself."
The fox answered, "I know a man who has been killing, and the salted meat is lying in a barrel in the cellar; we will get that."
Said the wolf, "I will go when thou dost, that thou mayest help me if I am not able to get away."
"I am willing," said the fox, and showed him the by-paths and ways by which at length they reached the cellar.
There was meat in abundance, and the wolf attacked it instantly and thought, "There is plenty of time before I need leave off!"
The fox liked it also, but looked about everywhere, and often ran to the hole by which they had come in, and tried if his body was still thin enough to slip through it.
The wolf said, "Dear fox, tell me why thou art running here and there so much, and jumping in and out?"
"I must see that no one is coming," replied the crafty fellow.
"Don"t eat too much!"
Then said the wolf, "I shall not leave until the barrel is empty."
In the meantime the farmer, who had heard the noise of the fox"s jumping, came into the cellar.
When the fox saw him he was out of the hole at one bound.
The wolf wanted to follow him, but he had made himself so fat with eating that he could no longer get through, but stuck fast.
Then came the farmer with a cudgel and struck him dead, but the fox bounded into the forest, glad to be rid of the old glutton.
Once upon a time the little hen went with the little cock to the nut-hill, and they agreed together that whichsoever of them found a kernel of a nut should share it with the other.
Then the hen found a large, large nut, but said nothing about it, intending to eat the kernel herself.
The kernel, however, was so large that she could not swallow it, and it remained sticking in her throat, so that she was alarmed lest she should be choked.
Then she cried, "Cock, I entreat thee to run as fast thou canst, and fetch me some water, or I shall choke."
The little cock did run as fast as he could to the spring, and said, "Stream, thou art to give me some water; the little hen is lying on the nut- hill, and she has swallowed a large nut, and is choking."
The well answered, "First run to the bride, and get her to give thee some red silk."
The little cock ran to the bride and said, "Bride, you are to give me some red silk; I want to give red silk to the well, the well is to give me some water, I am to take the water to the little hen who is lying on the nut-hill and has swallowed a great nut-kernel, and is choking with it."
The bride answered, "First run and bring me my little wreath which is hanging to a willow."
So the little cock ran to the willow, and drew the wreath from the branch and took it to the bride, and the bride gave him some water for it.
Then the little cock took the water to the hen, but when he got there the hen had choked in the meantime, and lay there dead and motionless.
Then the cock was so distressed that he cried aloud, and every animal came to lament the little hen, and six mice built a little carriage to carry her to her grave, and when the carriage was ready they harnessed themselves to it, and the cock drove.
On the way, however, they met the fox, who said, "Where art thou going, little cock?"
"I am going to bury my little hen."
"May I drive with thee?"
"Yes, but seat thyself at the back of the carriage, for in the front my little horses could not drag thee."
Then the fox seated himself at the back, and after that the wolf, the bear, the stag, the lion, and all the beasts of the forest did the same.
Then the procession went onwards, and they reached the stream.
"How are we to get over?" said the little cock.
A straw was lying by the stream, and it said, "I will lay myself across, and you shall drive over me."
But when the six mice came to the bridge, the straw slipped and fell into the water, and the six mice all fell in and were drowned.
Then they were again in difficulty, and a coal came and said, "I am large enough, I will lay myself across and you shall drive over me."
So the coal also laid itself across the water, but unhappily just touched it, on which the coal hissed, was extinguished and died.
When a stone saw that, it took pity on the little cock, wished to help him, and laid itself over the water.
Then the cock drew the carriage himself, but when he got it over and reached the other shore with the dead hen, and was about to draw over the others who were sitting behind as well, there were too many of them, the carriage ran back, and they all fell into the water together, and were drowned.
Then the little cock was left alone with the dead hen, and dug a grave for her and laid her in it, and made a mound above it, on which he sat down and fretted until he died too, and then every one was dead.
Once upon a time there was a man who did nothing but gamble, and for that reason people never called him anything but Gambling Hansel, and as he never ceased to gamble, he played away his house and all that he had.
Now the very day before his creditors were to take his house from him, came the Lord and St. Peter, and asked him to give them shelter for the night.
Then Gambling Hansel said, "For my part, you may stay the night, but I cannot give you a bed or anything to eat."
So the Lord said he was just to take them in, and they themselves would buy something to eat, to which Gambling Hansel made no objection.
Thereupon St. Peter gave him three groschen, and said he was to go to the baker"s and fetch some bread.
So Gambling Hansel went, but when he reached the house where the other gambling vagabonds were gathered together, they, although they had won all that he had, greeted him clamorously, and said, "Hansel, do come in."
"Oh," said he, "do you want to win the three groschen too?"
On this they would not let him go.
So he went in, and played away the three groschen also.
Meanwhile St. Peter and the Lord were waiting, and as he was so long in coming, they set out to meet him.
When Gambling Hansel came, however, he pretended that the money had fallen into the gutter, and kept raking about in it all the while to find it, but our Lord already knew that he had lost it in play.
St. Peter again gave him three groschen, and now he did not allow himself to be led away once more, but fetched them the loaf.
Our Lord then inquired if he had no wine, and he said, "Alack, sir, the casks are all empty!"
But the Lord said he was to go down into the cellar, for the best wine was still there.
For a long time he would not believe this, but at length he said, "Well, I will go down, but I know that there is none there."
When he turned the tap, however, lo and behold, the best of wine ran out!
So he took it to them, and the two passed the night there.
Early next day our Lord told Gambling Hansel that he might beg three favours.
The Lord expected that he would ask to go to Heaven; but Gambling Hansel asked for a pack of cards with which he could win everything, for dice with which he would win everything, and for a tree whereon every kind of fruit would grow, and from which no one who had climbed up, could descend until he bade him do so.
The Lord gave him all that he had asked, and departed with St. Peter.
And now Gambling Hansel at once set about gambling in real earnest, and before long he had gained half the world.
Upon this St. Peter said to the Lord, "Lord, this thing must not go on, he will win, and thou lose, the whole world.
We must send Death to him."
When Death appeared, Gambling Hansel had just seated himself at the gaming-table, and Death said, "Hansel, come out a while."
But Gambling Hansel said, "Just wait a little until the game is done, and in the meantime get up into that tree out there, and gather a little fruit that we may have something to munch on our way."
Thereupon Death climbed up, but when he wanted to come down again, he could not, and Gambling Hansel left him up there for seven years, during which time no one died.
So St. Peter said to the Lord, "Lord, this thing must not go on.
People no longer die; we must go ourselves."
And they went themselves, and the Lord commanded Hansel to let Death come down.
So Hansel went at once to Death and said to him, "Come down," and Death took him directly and put an end to him.
They went away together and came to the next world, and then Gambling Hansel made straight for the door of Heaven, and knocked at it.
"Who is there?"
"Gambling Hansel."
"Ah, we will have nothing to do with him!
Begone!"
So he went to the door of Purgatory, and knocked once more.
"Who is there?"
"Gambling Hansel."
"Ah, there is quite enough weeping and wailing here without him.
We do not want to gamble, just go away again."
Then he went to the door of Hell, and there they let him in.
There was, however, no one at home but old Lucifer and the crooked devils who had just been doing their evil work in the world.
And no sooner was Hansel there than he sat down to gamble again.
Lucifer, however, had nothing to lose, but his mis-shapen devils, and Gambling Hansel won them from him, as with his cards he could not fail to do.
And now he was off again with his crooked devils, and they went to Hohenfuert and pulled up a hop-pole, and with it went to Heaven and began to thrust the pole against it, and Heaven began to crack.
So again St. Peter said, "Lord, this thing cannot go on, we must let him in, or he will throw us down from Heaven."
And they let him in.
But Gambling Hansel instantly began to play again, and there was such a noise and confusion that there was no hearing what they themselves were saying.
Therefore St. Peter once more said, "Lord, this cannot go on, we must throw him down, or he will make all Heaven rebellious."
So they went to him at once, and threw him down, and his soul broke into fragments, and went into the gambling vagabonds who are living this very day.
In olden times, when the Lord himself still used to walk about on this earth amongst men, it once happened that he was tired and overtaken by the darkness before he could reach an inn.
Now there stood on the road before him two houses facing each other; the one large and beautiful, the other small and poor.
The large one belonged to a rich man, and the small one to a poor man.
Then the Lord thought, "I shall be no burden to the rich man, I will stay the night with him."
When the rich man heard some one knocking at his door, he opened the window and asked the stranger what he wanted.
The Lord answered, "I only ask for a night"s lodging."
Then the rich man looked at the traveler from head to foot, and as the Lord was wearing common clothes, and did not look like one who had much money in his pocket, he shook his head, and said, "No, I cannot take you in, my rooms are full of herbs and seeds; and if I were to lodge everyone who knocked at my door, I might very soon go begging myself.
Go somewhere else for a lodging," and with this he shut down the window and left the Lord standing there.
So the Lord turned his back on the rich man, and went across to the small house and knocked.
He had hardly done so when the poor man opened the little door and bade the traveler come in.
"Pass the night with me, it is already dark," said he; "you cannot go any further to-night."
This pleased the Lord, and he went in.
The poor man"s wife shook hands with him, and welcomed him, and said he was to make himself at home and put up with what they had got; they had not much to offer him, but what they had they would give him with all their hearts.
Then she put the potatoes on the fire, and while they were boiling, she milked the goat, that they might have a little milk with them.
When the cloth was laid, the Lord sat down with the man and his wife, and he enjoyed their coarse food, for there were happy faces at the table.
When they had had supper and it was bed-time, the woman called her husband apart and said, "Hark you, dear husband, let us make up a bed of straw for ourselves to-night, and then the poor traveler can sleep in our bed and have a good rest, for he has been walking the whole day through, and that makes one weary."
"With all my heart," he answered, "I will go and offer it to him;" and he went to the stranger and invited him, if he had no objection, to sleep in their bed and rest his limbs properly.
But the Lord was unwilling to take their bed from the two old folks; however, they would not be satisfied, until at length he did it and lay down in their bed, while they themselves lay on some straw on the ground.
Next morning they got up before daybreak, and made as good a breakfast as they could for the guest.
When the sun shone in through the little window, and the Lord had got up, he again ate with them, and then prepared to set out on his journey.
But as he was standing at the door he turned round and said, "As you are so kind and good, you may wish three things for yourselves and I will grant them."
Then the man said, "What else should I wish for but eternal happiness, and that we two, as long as we live, may be healthy and have every day our daily bread; for the third wish, I do not know what to have."
And the Lord said to him, "Will you wish for a new house instead of this old one?"
"Oh, yes," said the man; "if I can have that, too, I should like it very much."
And the Lord fulfilled his wish, and changed their old house into a new one, again gave them his blessing, and went on.
The sun was high when the rich man got up and leaned out of his window and saw, on the opposite side of the way, a new clean-looking house with red tiles and bright windows where the old hut used to be.
He was very much astonished, and called his wife and said to her, "Tell me, what can have happened?
Last night there was a miserable little hut standing there, and to-day there is a beautiful new house.
Run over and see how that has come to pass."
So his wife went and asked the poor man, and he said to her, "Yesterday evening a traveler came here and asked for a night"s lodging, and this morning when he took leave of us he granted us three wishes---eternal happiness, health during this life and our daily bread as well, and besides this, a beautiful new house instead of our old hut."
When the rich man"s wife heard this, she ran back in haste and told her husband how it had happened.
The man said, "I could tear myself to pieces!
If I had but known that!
That traveler came to our house too, and wanted to sleep here, and I sent him away."
"Quick!" said his wife, "get on your horse.
You can still catch the man up, and then you must ask to have three wishes granted to you."
The rich man followed the good counsel and galloped away on his horse, and soon came up with the Lord.
He spoke to him softly and pleasantly, and begged him not to take it amiss that he had not let him in directly; he was looking for the front-door key, and in the meantime the stranger had gone away, if he returned the same way he must come and stay with him.
"Yes," said the Lord; "if I ever come back again, I will do so."
Then the rich man asked if might not wish for three things too, as his neighbor had done?
"Yes," said the Lord, he might, but it would not be to his advantage, and he had better not wish for anything; but the rich man thought that he could easily ask for something which would add to his happiness, if he only knew that it would be granted.
So the Lord said to him, "Ride home, then, and three wishes which you shall form, shall be fulfilled."
The rich man had now gained what he wanted, so he rode home, and began to consider what he should wish for.
As he was thus thinking he let the bridle fall, and the horse began to caper about, so that he was continually disturbed in his meditations, and could not collect his thoughts at all.
He patted its neck, and said, "Gently, Lisa," but the horse only began new tricks.
Then at last he was angry, and cried quite impatiently, "I wish your neck was broken!"
Directly he had said the words, down the horse fell on the ground, and there it lay dead and never moved again.
And thus was his first wish fulfilled.
As he was miserly by nature, he did not like to leave the harness lying there; so he cut it off, and put it on his back; and now he had to go on foot.
"I have still two wishes left," said he, and comforted himself with that thought.
And now as he was walking slowly through the sand, and the sun was burning hot at noon-day, he grew quite hot-tempered and angry.
The saddle hurt his back, and he had not yet any idea what to wish for.
"If I were to wish for all the riches and treasures in the world," said he to himself, "I should still to think of all kinds of other things later on, I know that, beforehand.
But I will manage so that there is nothing at all left me to wish for afterwards."
Then he sighed and said, "Ah, if I were but that Bavarian peasant, who likewise had three wishes granted to him, and knew quite well what to do, and in the first place wished for a great deal of beer, and in the second for as much beer as he was able to drink, and in the third for a barrel of beer into the bargain."
Many a time he thought he had found it, but then it seemed to him to be, after all, too little.
Then it came into his mind, what an easy life his wife had, for she stayed at home in a cool room and enjoyed herself.
This really did vex him, and before he was aware, he said, "I just wish she was sitting there on this saddle, and could not get off it, instead of my having to drag it along on my back."
And as the last word was spoken, the saddle disappeared from his back, and he saw that his second wish had been fulfilled.
Then he really did feel warm.
He began to run and wanted to be quite alone in his own room at home, to think of something really large for his last wish.
But when he arrived there and opened the parlour-door, he saw his wife sitting in the middle of the room on the saddle, crying and complaining, and quite unable to get off it.
So he said, "Do bear it, and I will wish for all the riches on earth for thee, only stay where thou art."
She, however, called him a fool, and said, "What good will all the riches on earth do me, if I am to sit on this saddle?
Thou hast wished me on it, so thou must help me off."
So whether he would or not, he was forced to let his third wish be that she should be quit of the saddle, and able to get off it, and immediately the wish was fulfilled.
So he got nothing by it but vexation, trouble, abuse, and the loss of his horse; but the poor people lived happily, quietly, and piously until their happy death.
Once on a time a countryman had a son who was as big as a thumb, and did not become any bigger, and during several years did not grow one hair"s breadth.
Once when the father was going out to plough, the little one said, "Father, I will go out with you."
"Thou wouldst go out with me?" said the father.
"Stay here, thou wilt be of no use out there, besides thou mightest get lost!"
Then Thumbling began to cry, and for the sake of peace his father put him in his pocket, and took him with him.
When he was outside in the field, he took him out again, and set him in a freshly-cut furrow.
Whilst he was there, a great giant came over the hill.
"Do thou see that great bogie?" said the father, for he wanted to frighten the little fellow to make him good; "he is coming to fetch thee."
The giant, however, had scarcely taken two steps with his long legs before he was in the furrow.
He took up little Thumbling carefully with two fingers, examined him, and without saying one word went away with him.
His father stood by, but could not utter a sound for terror, and he thought nothing else but that his child was lost, and that as long as he lived he should never set eyes on him again.
The giant, however, carried him home, suckled him, and Thumbling grew and became tall and strong after the manner of giants.
When two years had passed, the old giant took him into the forest, wanted to try him, and said, "Pull up a stick for thyself."
Then the boy was already so strong that he tore up a young tree out of the earth by the roots.
But the giant thought, "We must do better than that," took him back again, and suckled him two years longer.
When he tried him, his strength had increased so much that he could tear an old tree out of the ground.
That was still not enough for the giant; he again suckled him for two years, and when he then went with him into the forest and said, "Now just tear up a proper stick for me," the boy tore up the strongest oak-tree from the earth, so that it split, and that was a mere trifle to him.
"Now that will do," said the giant, "thou art perfect," and took him back to the field from whence he had brought him.
His father was there following the plough.
The young giant went up to him, and said, "Does my father see what a fine man his son has grown into?"
The farmer was alarmed, and said, "No, thou art not my son; I don"t want thee leave me!"
"Truly I am your son; allow me to do your work, I can plough as well as you, nay better."
"No, no, thou art not my son; and thou canst not plough go away!"
However, as he was afraid of this great man, he left go of the plough, stepped back and stood at one side of the piece of land.
Then the youth took the plough, and just pressed it with one hand, but his grasp was so strong that the plough went deep into the earth.
The farmer could not bear to see that, and called to him, "If thou art determined to plough, thou must not press so hard on it, that makes bad work."
The youth, however, unharnessed the horses, and drew the plough himself, saying, "Just go home, father, and bid my mother make ready a large dish of food, and in the meantime I will go over the field."
Then the farmer went home, and ordered his wife to prepare the food; but the youth ploughed the field which was two acres large, quite alone, and then he harnessed himself to the harrow, and harrowed the whole of the land, using two harrows at once.
When he had done it, he went into the forest, and pulled up two oak-trees, laid them across his shoulders, and hung on them one harrow behind and one before, and also one horse behind and one before, and carried all as if it had been a bundle of straw, to his parents" house.
When he entered the yard, his mother did not recognize him, and asked, "Who is that horrible tall man?"
The farmer said, "That is our son."
She said, "No that cannot be our son, we never had such a tall one, ours was a little thing."
She called to him, "Go away, we do not want thee!"
The youth was silent, but led his horses to the stable, gave them some oats and hay, and all that they wanted.
When he had done this, he went into the parlour, sat down on the bench and said, "Mother, now I should like something to eat, will it soon be ready?"
Then she said, "Yes," and brought in two immense dishes full of food, which would have been enough to satisfy herself and her husband for a week.
The youth, however, ate the whole of it himself, and asked if she had nothing more to set before him.
"No," she replied, "that is all we have."
"But that was only a taste, I must have more."
She did not dare to oppose him, and went and put a huge caldron full of food on the fire, and when it was ready, carried it in.
"At length come a few crumbs," said he, and ate all there was, but it was still not sufficient to appease his hunger.
Then said he, "Father, I see well that with you I shall never have food enough; if you will get me an iron staff which is strong, and which I cannot break against my knees, I will go out into the world."
The farmer was glad, put his two horses in his cart, and fetched from the smith a staff so large and thick, that the two horses could only just bring it away.
The youth laid it across his knees, and snap! he broke it in two in the middle like a bean-stalk, and threw it away.
The father then harnessed four horses, and brought a bar which was so long and thick, that the four horses could only just drag it.
The son snapped this also in twain against his knees, threw it away, and said, "Father, this can be of no use to me, you must harness more horses, and bring a stronger staff."
So the father harnessed eight horses, and brought one which was so long and thick, that the eight horses could only just carry it.
When the son took it in his hand, he broke off a bit from the top of it also, and said, "Father, I see that you will not be able to procure me any such staff as I want, I will remain no longer with you."
So he went away, and gave out that he was a smith"s apprentice.
He arrived at a village, wherein lived a smith who was a greedy fellow, who never did a kindness to any one, but wanted everything for himself.
The youth went into the smithy and asked if he needed a journeyman.
"Yes," said the smith, and looked at him, and thought, "That is a strong fellow who will strike out well, and earn his bread."
So he asked, "How much wages dost thou want?"
"I don"t want any at all," he replied, "only every fortnight, when the other journeymen are paid, I will give thee two blows, and thou must bear them."
The miser was heartily satisfied, and thought he would thus save much money.
Next morning, the strange journeyman was to begin to work, but when the master brought the glowing bar, and the youth struck his first blow, the iron flew asunder, and the anvil sank so deep into the earth, that there was no bringing it out again.
Then the miser grew angry, and said, "Oh, but I can"t make any use of you, you strike far too powerfully; what will you have for the one blow?"
Then said he, "I will only give you quite a small blow, that"s all."
And he raised his foot, and gave him such a kick that he flew away over four loads of hay.
Then he sought out the thickest iron bar in the smithy for himself, took it as a stick in his hand and went onwards.
When he had walked for some time, he came to a small farm, and asked the bailiff if he did not require a head-servant.
"Yes," said the bailiff, "I can make use of one; you look a strong fellow who can do something, how much a year do you want as wages?"
He again replied that he wanted no wages at all, but that every year he would give him three blows, which he must bear.
Then the bailiff was satisfied, for he, too, was a covetous fellow.
Next morning all the servants were to go into the wood, and the others were already up, but the head-servant was still in bed.
Then one of them called to him, "Get up, it is time; we are going into the wood, and thou must go with us."
"Ah," said he quite roughly and surlily, "you may just go, then; I shall be back again before any of you."
Then the others went to the bailiff, and told him that the head-man was still lying in bed, and would not go into the wood with them.
The bailiff said they were to awaken him again, and tell him to harness the horses.
The head-man, however, said as before, "Just go there, I shall be back again before any of you."
And then he stayed in bed two hours longer.
At length he arose from the feathers, but first he got himself two bushels of peas from the loft, made himself some broth with them, ate it at his leisure, and when that was done, went and harnessed the horses, and drove into the wood.
Not far from the wood was a ravine through which he had to pass, so he first drove the horses on, and then stopped them, and went behind the cart, took trees and brushwood, and made a great barricade, so that no horse could get through.
When he was entering the wood, the others were just driving out of it with their loaded carts to go home; then said he to them, "Drive on, I will still get home before you do."
He did not drive far into the wood, but at once tore two of the very largest trees of all out of the earth, threw them on his cart, and turned round.
When he came to the barricade, the others were still standing there, not able to get through.
"Don"t you see," said he, "that if you had stayed with me, you would have got home just as quickly, and would have had another hour"s sleep?"
He now wanted to drive on, but his horeses could not work their way through, so he unharnessed them, laid them on the top of the cart, took the shafts in his own hands, and pulled it all through, and he did this just as easily as if it had been laden with feathers.
When he was over, he said to the others, "There, you see, I have got over quicker than you," and drove on, and the others had to stay where they were.
In the yard, however, he took a tree in his hand, showed it to the bailiff, and said, "Isn"t that a fine bundle of wood?"
Then said the bailiff to his wife, "The servant is a good one, if he does sleep long, he is still home before the others."
So he served the bailiff for a year, and when that was over, and the other servants were getting their wages, he said it was time for him to take his too.
The bailiff, however, was afraid of the blows which he was to receive, and earnestly entreated him to excuse him from having them; for rather than that, he himself would be head-servant, and the youth should be bailiff.
"No," said he, "I will not be a bailiff, I am head-servant, and will remain so, but I will administer that which we agreed on."
The bailiff was willing to give him whatsoever he demanded, but it was of no use, the head-servant said no to everything.
Then the bailiff did not know what to do, and begged for a fortnight"s delay, for he wanted to find some way of escape.
The head-servant consented to this delay.
The bailiff summoned all his clerks together, and they were to think the matter over, and give him advice.
The clerks pondered for a long time, but at last they said that no one was sure of his life with the head-servant, for he could kill a man as easily as a midge, and that the bailiff ought to make him get into the well and clean it, and when he was down below, they would roll up one of the mill-stones which was lying there, and throw it on his head; and then he would never return to daylight.
The advice pleased the bailiff, and the head-servant was quite willing to go down the well.
When he was standing down below at the bottom, they rolled down the largest mill-stone and thought they had broken his skull, but he cried, "Chase away those hens from the well, they are scratching in the sand up there, and throwing the grains into my eyes, so that I can"t see."
So the bailiff cried, "Sh-sh," and pretended to frighten the hens away.
When the head-servant had finished his work, he climbed up and said, "Just look what a beautiful neck-tie I have on," and behold it was the mill-stone which he was wearing round his neck.
The head-servant now wanted to take his reward, but the bailiff again begged for a fortnight"s delay.
The clerks met together and advised him to send the head-servant to the haunted mill to grind corn by night, for from thence as yet no man had ever returned in the morning alive.
The proposal pleased the bailiff, he called the head-servant that very evening, and ordered him to take eight bushels of corn to the mill, and grind it that night, for it was wanted.
So the head-servant went to the loft, and put two bushels in his right pocket, and two in his left, and took four in a wallet, half on his back, and half on his breast, and thus laden went to the haunted mill.
The miller told him that he could grind there very well by day, but not by night, for the mill was haunted, and that up to the present time whosoever had gone into it at night had been found in the morning lying dead inside.
He said, "I will manage it, just you go away to bed."
Then he went into the mill, and poured out the corn.
About eleven o"clock he went into the miller"s room, and sat down on the bench.
When he had sat there a while, a door suddenly opened, and a large table came in, and on the table, wine and roasted meats placed themselves, and much good food besides, but everything came of itself, for no one was there to carry it.
After this the chairs pushed themselves up, but no people came, until all at once he beheld fingers, which handled knives and forks, and laid food on the plates, but with this exception he saw nothing.
As he was hungry, and saw the food, he, too, place himself at the table, ate with those who were eating and enjoyed it.
When he had had enough, and the others also had quite emptied their dishes, he distinctly heard all the candles being suddenly snuffed out, and as it was now pitch dark, he felt something like a box on the ear.
Then he said, "If anything of that kind comes again, I shall strike out in return."
And when he had received a second box on the ear, he, too struck out.
And so it continued the whole night.
He took nothing without returning it, but repaid everything with interest, and did not lay about him in vain.
At daybreak, however, everything ceased.
When the miller had got up, he wanted to look after him, and wondered if he were still alive.
Then the youth said, "I have eaten my fill, have received some boxes on the ears, but I have given some in return."
The miller rejoiced, and said that the mill was now released from the spell, and wanted to give him much money as a reward.
But he said, "Money, I will not have, I have enough of it."
So he took his meal on his back, went home, and told the bailiff that he had done what he had been told to do, and would now have the reward agreed on.
When the bailiff heard that, he was seriously alarmed and quite beside himself; he walked backwards and forwards in the room, and drops of perspiration ran down from his forehead.
Then he opened the window to get some fresh air, but before he was aware, the head-servant had given him such a kick that he flew through the window out into the air, and so far away that no one ever saw him again.
Then said the head-servant to the bailiff"s wife, "If he does not come back, you must take the other blow."
She cried, "No, no I cannot bear it," and opened the other window, because drops of perspiration were running down her forehead.
Then he gave her such a kick that she, too, flew out, and as she was lighter she went much higher than her husband.
Her husband cried, "Do come to me," but she replied, "Come thou to me, I cannot come to thee."
And they hovered about there in the air, and could not get to each other, and whether they are still hovering about, or not, I do not know, but the young giant took up his iron bar, and went on his way.
There was once upon a time a rich King who had three daughters, who daily went to walk in the palace garden, and the King was a great lover of all kinds of fine trees, but there was one for which he had such an affection, that if anyone gathered an apple from it he wished him a hundred fathoms underground.
And when harvest time came, the apples on this tree were all as red as blood.
The three daughters went every day beneath the tree, and looked to see if the wind had not blown down an apple, but they never by any chance found one, and the tree was so loaded with them that it was almost breaking, and the branches hung down to the ground.
Then the King"s youngest child had a great desire for an apple, and said to her sisters, "Our father loves us far too much to wish us underground, it is my belief that he would only do that to people who were strangers."
And while she was speaking, the child plucked off quite a large apple, and ran to her sisters, saying, "Just taste, my dear little sisters, for never in my life have I tasted anything so delightful."
Then the two other sisters also ate some of the apple, whereupon all three sank deep down into the earth, where they could hear no cock crow.
When mid-day came, the King wished to call them to come to dinner, but they were nowhere to be found.
He sought them everywhere in the palace and garden, but could not find them.
Then he was much troubled, and made known to the whole land that whosoever brought his daughters back again should have one of them to wife.
Hereupon so many young men went about the country in search, that there was no counting them, for every one loved the three children because they were so kind to all, and so fair of face.
Three young huntsmen also went out, and when they had travelled about for eight days, they arrived at a great castle, in which were beautiful apartments, and in one room a table was laid on which were delicate dishes which were still so warm that they were smoking, but in the whole of the castle no human being was either to be seen or heard.
They waited there for half a day, and the food still remained warm and smoking, and at length they were so hungry that they sat down and ate, and agreed with each other that they would stay and live in that castle, and that one of them, who should be chosen by casting lots, should remain in the house, and the two others seek the King"s daughters.
They cast lots, and the lot fell on the eldest; so next day the two younger went out to seek, and the eldest had to stay home.
At mid-day came a small, small mannikin and begged for a piece of bread, then the huntsman took the bread which he had found there, and cut a round off the loaf and was about to give it to him, but whilst he was giving it to the mannikin, the latter let it fall, and asked the huntsman to be so good as to give him that piece again.
The huntsman was about to do so and stooped, on which the mannikin took a stick, seized him by the hair, and gave him a good beating.
Next day, the second stayed at home, and he fared no better.
When the two others returned in the evening, the eldest said, "Well, how have you got on?"
"Oh, very badly," said he, and then they lamented their misfortune together, but they said nothing about it to the youngest, for they did not like him at all, and always called him Stupid Hans, because he did not exactly belong to the forest.
On the third day, the youngest stayed at home, and again the little mannikin came and begged for a piece of bread.
When the youth gave it to him, the elf let it fall as before, and asked him to be so good as to give him that piece again.
Then said Hans to the little mannikin, "What! canst thou not pick up that piece thyself?
If thou wilt not take as much trouble as that for thy daily bread, thou dost not deserve to have it."
Then the mannikin grew very angry and said he was to do it, but the huntsman would not, and took my dear mannikin, and gave him a thorough beating.
Then the mannikin screamed terribly, and cried, "Stop, stop, and let me go, and I will tell thee where the King"s daughters are."
When Hans heard that, he left off beating him and the mannikin told him that he was an earth mannikin, and that there were more than a thousand like him, and that if he would go with him he would show him where the King"s daughters were.
Then he showed him a deep well, but there was no water in it.
And the elf said that he knew well that the companions Hans had with him did not intend to deal honourably with him, therefore if he wished to deliver the King"s children, he must do it alone.
The two other brothers would also be very glad to recover the King"s daughters, but they did not want to have any trouble or danger.
Hans was therefore to take a large basket, and he must seat himself in it with his hanger and a bell, and be let down.
Below were three rooms, and in each of them was a princess, with a many-headed dragon, whose heads she was to comb and trim, but he must cut them off.
And having said all this, the elf vanished.
When it was evening the two brothers came and asked how he had got on, and he said, "pretty well so far," and that he had seen no one except at mid-day when a little mannikin had come and begged for a piece of bread, that he had given some to him, but that the mannikin had let it fall and had asked him to pick it up again; but as he did not choose to do that, the elf had begun to lose his temper, and that he had done what he ought not, and had given the elf a beating, on which he had told him where the King"s daughters were.
Then the two were so angry at this that they grew green and yellow.
Next morning they went to the well together, and drew lots who should first seat himself in the basket, and again the lot fell on the eldest, and he was to seat himself in it, and take the bell with him.
Then he said, "If I ring, you must draw me up again immediately."
When he had gone down for a short distance, he rang, and they at once drew him up again.
Then the second seated himself in the basket, but he did just the same as the first, and then it was the turn of the youngest, but he let himself be lowered quite to the bottom.
When he had got out of the basket, he took his hanger, and went and stood outside the first door and listened, and heard the dragon snoring quite loudly.
He opened the door slowly, and one of the princesses was sitting there, and had nine dragon"s heads lying upon her lap, and was combing them.
Then he took his hanger and hewed at them, and the nine fell off.
The princess sprang up, threw her arms round his neck, embraced and kissed him repeatedly, and took her stomacher, which was made of pure gold, and hung it round his neck.
Then he went to the second princess, who had a dragon with five heads to comb, and delivered her also, and to the youngest, who had a dragon with four heads, he went likewise.
And they all rejoiced, and embraced him and kissed him without stopping.
Then he rang very loud, so that those above heard him, and he placed the princesses one after the other in the basket, and had them all drawn up, but when it came to his own turn he remembered the words of the elf, who had told him that his comrades did not mean well by him.
So he took a great stone which was lying there, and placed it in the basket, and when it was about half way up, his false brothers above cut the rope, so that the basket with the stone fell to the ground, and they thought that he was dead, and ran away with the three princesses, making them promise to tell their father that it was they who had delivered them, and then they went to the King, and each demanded a princess in marriage.
In the meantime the youngest huntsman was wandering about the three chambers in great trouble, fully expecting to have to end his days there, when he saw, hanging on the wall, a flute; then said he, "Why dost thou hang there, no one can be merry here?"
He looked at the dragons, heads likewise and said, "You too cannot help me now."
He walked backwards and forwards for such a long time that he made the surface of the ground quite smooth.
But at last other thoughts came to his mind, and he took the flute from the wall, and played a few notes on it, and suddenly a number of elves appeared, and with every note that he sounded one more came.
Then he played until the room was entirely filled.
They all asked what he desired, so he said he wished to get above ground back to daylight, on which they seized him by every hair that grew on his head, and thus they flew with him onto the earth again.
When he was above ground, he at once went to the King"s palace, just as the wedding of one princess was about to be celebrated, and he went to the room where the King and his three daughters were.
When the princesses saw him they fainted.
Hereupon the King was angry, and ordered him to be put in prison at once, because he thought he must have done some injury to the children.
When the princesses came to themselves, however, they entreated the King to set him free again.
The King asked why, and they said that they were not allowed to tell that, but their father said that they were to tell it to the stove.
And he went out, listened at the door, and heard everything.
Then he caused the two brothers to be hanged on the gallows, and to the third he gave his youngest daughter, and on that occasion I wore a pair of glass shoes, and I struck them against a stone, and they said, "Klink," and were broken.
About a thousand or more years ago, there were in this country nothing but small kings, and one of them who lived on the Keuterberg was very fond of hunting.
Once on a time when he was riding forth from his castle with his huntsmen, three girls were watching their cows upon the mountain, and when they saw the King with all his followers, the eldest girl pointed to him, and called to the two other girls, "If I do not get that one, I will have none."
Then the second girl answered from the other side of the hill, and pointed to the one who was on the King"s right hand, "Hilloa! hilloa!
If I do not get him, I will have no one."
These, however, were the two ministers.
The King heard all this, and when he had come back from the chase, he caused the three girls to be brought to him, and asked them what they had said yesterday on the mountain.
This they would not tell him, so the King asked the eldest if she really would take him for her husband?
Then she said, "Yes," and the two ministers married the two sisters, for they were all three fair and beautiful of face, especially the Queen, who had hair like flax.
But the two sisters had no children, and once when the King was obliged to go from home he invited them to come to the Queen in order to cheer her, for she was about to bear a child.
She had a little boy who brought a bright red star into the world with him.
Then the two sisters said to each other that they would throw the beautiful boy into the water.
When they had thrown him in (I believe it was into the Weser) a little bird flew up into the air, which sang ,
"To thy death art thou sped, Until God"s word be said.
In the white lily bloom, Brave boy, is thy tomb."
When the two heard that, they were frightened to death, and ran away in great haste.
When the King came home they told him that the Queen had been delivered of a dog.
Then the King said, "What God does, is well done!"
But a fisherman who dwelt near the water fished the little boy out again while he was still alive, and as his wife had no children, they reared him.
When a year had gone by, the King again went away, and the Queen had another little boy, whom the false sisters likewise took and threw into the water.
Then up flew a little bird again and sang,
"To thy death art thou sped, Until God"s word be said.
In the white lily bloom, Brave boy, is thy tomb."
And when the King came back, they told him that the Queen had once more given birth to a dog, and he again said, "What God does, is well done."
The fisherman, however, fished this one also out of the water, and reared him.
Then the King again journeyed forth, and the Queen had a little girl, whom also the false sisters threw into the water.
Then again a little bird flew up on high and sang,
"To thy death art thou sped Until God"s word be said.
In the white lily bloom, Bonny girl, is thy tomb."
And when the King came home they told him that the Queen had been delivered of a cat.
Then the King grew angry, and ordered his wife to be cast into prison, and therein was she shut up for many long years.
In the meantime the children had grown up.
Then eldest once went out with some other boys to fish, but the other boys would not have him with them, and said, "Go thy way, foundling."
Hereupon he was much troubled, and asked the old fisherman if that was true?
The fisherman told him that once when he was fishing he had drawn him out of the water.
So the boy said he would go forth and seek his father.
The fisherman, however, entreated him to stay, but he would not let himself be hindered, and at last the fisherman consented.
Then the boy went on his way and walked for many days, and at last he came to a great piece of water by the side of which stood an old woman fishing.
"Good day, mother," said the boy.
"Many thanks," said she.
"Thou wilt fish long enough before thou catchest anything."
"And thou wilt seek long enough before thou findest thy father.
How wilt thou get over the water?" said the woman.
"God knows."
Then the old woman took him up on her back and carried him through it, and he sought for a long time, but could not find his father.
When a year had gone by, the second boy set out to seek his brother.
He came to the water, and all fared with him just as with his brother.
And now there was no one at home but the daughter, and she mourned for her brothers so much that at last she also begged the fisherman to let her set forth, for she wished to go in search of her brothers.
Then she likewise came to the great piece of water, and she said to the old woman, "Good day, mother."
"Many thanks," replied the old woman.
"May God help you with your fishing," said the maiden.
When the old woman heard that, she became quite friendly, and carried her over the water, gave her a wand, and said to her, "Go, my daughter, ever onwards by this road, and when you come to a great black dog, you must pass it silently and boldly, without either laughing or looking at it.
Then you will come to a great high castle, on the threshold of which you must let the wand fall, and go straight through the castle, and out again on the other side.
There you will see an old fountain out of which a large tree has grown, whereon hangs a bird in a cage which you must take down.
Take likewise a glass of water out of the fountain, and with these two things go back by the same way.
Pick up the wand again from the threshold and take it with you, and when you again pass by the dog, strike him in the face with it, but be sure that you hit him, and then just come back here to me."
The maiden found everything exactly as the old woman had said, and on her way back she found her two brothers who had sought each other over half the world.
They went together to the place where the black dog was lying on the road; she struck it in the face, and it turned into a handsome prince who went with them to the river.
There the old woman was still standing.
She rejoiced much to see them again, and carried them all over the water, and then she too went away, for now she was freed.
The others, however, went to the old fisherman, and all were glad that they had found each other again, but they hung the bird on the wall.
But the second son could not settle at home, and took his cross-bow and went a-hunting.
When he was tired he took his flute, and made music.
The King was hunting too, and heard that and went thither, and when he met the youth, he said, "Who has given thee leave to hunt here?"
"Oh, no one."
"To whom dost thou belong, then?"
"I am the fisherman"s son."
"But he has no children."
"If thou wilt not believe, come with me."
That the King did, and questioned the fisherman, who told everything to him, and the little bird on the wall began to sing,
"The mother sits alone There in the prison small, O King of royal blood, These are thy children all.
The sisters twain so false, They wrought the children woe, There in the waters deep Where the fishermen come and go."
Then they were all terrified, and the King took the bird, the fisherman and the three children back with him to the castle, and ordered the prison to be opened and brought his wife out again.
She had, however, grown quite ill and weak.
Then the daughter gave her some of the water of the fountain to drink, and she became strong and healthy.
But the two false sisters were burnt, and the daughter married the prince.
The wife of a rich man fell sick; and when she felt that her end drew nigh, she called her only daughter to her bed-side, and said, "Always be a good girl, and I will look down from heaven and watch over you."
Soon afterwards she shut her eyes and died, and was buried in the garden; and the little girl went every day to her grave and wept, and was always good and kind to all about her.
And the snow fell and spread a beautiful white covering over the grave; but by the time the spring came, and the sun had melted it away again, her father had married another wife.
This new wife had two daughters of her own, that she brought home with her; they were fair in face but foul at heart, and it was now a sorry time for the poor little girl.
"What does the good-for-nothing want in the parlour?" said they; "they who would eat bread should first earn it; away with the kitchen-maid!"
Then they took away her fine clothes, and gave her an old grey frock to put on, and laughed at her, and turned her into the kitchen.
There she was forced to do hard work; to rise early before daylight, to bring the water, to make the fire, to cook and to wash.
Besides that, the sisters plagued her in all sorts of ways, and laughed at her.
In the evening when she was tired, she had no bed to lie down on, but was made to lie by the hearth among the ashes; and as this, of course, made her always dusty and dirty, they called her Ashputtel.
It happened once that the father was going to the fair, and asked his wife"s daughters what he should bring them.
"Fine clothes," said the first; "Pearls and diamonds," cried the second.
"Now, child," said he to his own daughter, "what will you have?"
"The first twig, dear father, that brushes against your hat when you turn your face to come homewards," said she.
Then he bought for the first two the fine clothes and pearls and diamonds they had asked for: and on his way home, as he rode through a green copse, a hazel twig brushed against him, and almost pushed off his hat: so he broke it off and brought it away; and when he got home he gave it to his daughter.
Then she took it, and went to her mother"s grave and planted it there; and cried so much that it was watered with her tears; and there it grew and became a fine tree.
Three times every day she went to it and cried; and soon a little bird came and built its nest upon the tree, and talked with her, and watched over her, and brought her whatever she wished for.
Now it happened that the king of that land held a feast, which was to last three days; and out of those who came to it his son was to choose a bride for himself.
Ashputtel"s two sisters were asked to come; so they called her up, and said, "Now, comb our hair, brush our shoes, and tie our sashes for us, for we are going to dance at the king"s feast."
Then she did as she was told; but when all was done she could not help crying, for she thought to herself, she should so have liked to have gone with them to the ball; and at last she begged her mother very hard to let her go.
"You, Ashputtel!" said she; "you who have nothing to wear, no clothes at all, and who cannot even dance--you want to go to the ball?
And when she kept on begging, she said at last, to get rid of her, "I will throw this dishful of peas into the ash-heap, and if in two hours" time you have picked them all out, you shall go to the feast too."
Then she threw the peas down among the ashes, but the little maiden ran out at the back door into the garden, and cried out:
"Hither, hither, through the sky, Turtle-doves and linnets, fly!
Blackbird, thrush, and chaffinch gay, Hither, hither, haste away!
One and all come help me, quick!
Haste ye, haste ye!--pick, pick, pick!"
Then first came two white doves, flying in at the kitchen window; next came two turtle-doves; and after them came all the little birds under heaven, chirping and fluttering in: and they flew down into the ashes.
And the little doves stooped their heads down and set to work, pick, pick, pick; and then the others began to pick, pick, pick: and among them all they soon picked out all the good grain, and put it into a dish but left the ashes.
Long before the end of the hour the work was quite done, and all flew out again at the windows.
Then Ashputtel brought the dish to her mother, overjoyed at the thought that now she should go to the ball.
But the mother said, "No, no! you slut, you have no clothes, and cannot dance; you shall not go."
And when Ashputtel begged very hard to go, she said, "If you can in one hour"s time pick two of those dishes of peas out of the ashes, you shall go too."
And thus she thought she should at least get rid of her.
So she shook two dishes of peas into the ashes.
But the little maiden went out into the garden at the back of the house, and cried out as before:
"Hither, hither, through the sky, Turtle-doves and linnets, fly!
Blackbird, thrush, and chaffinch gay, Hither, hither, haste away!
One and all come help me, quick!
Haste ye, haste ye!--pick, pick, pick!"
Then first came two white doves in at the kitchen window; next came two turtle-doves; and after them came all the little birds under heaven, chirping and hopping about.
And they flew down into the ashes; and the little doves put their heads down and set to work, pick, pick, pick; and then the others began pick, pick, pick; and they put all the good grain into the dishes, and left all the ashes.
Before half an hour"s time all was done, and out they flew again.
And then Ashputtel took the dishes to her mother, rejoicing to think that she should now go to the ball.
But her mother said, "It is all of no use, you cannot go; you have no clothes, and cannot dance, and you would only put us to shame": and off she went with her two daughters to the ball.
Now when all were gone, and nobody left at home, Ashputtel went sorrowfully and sat down under the hazel-tree, and cried out:
"Shake, shake, hazel-tree, Gold and silver over me!"
Then her friend the bird flew out of the tree, and brought a gold and silver dress for her, and slippers of spangled silk; and she put them on, and followed her sisters to the feast.
But they did not know her, and thought it must be some strange princess, she looked so fine and beautiful in her rich clothes; and they never once thought of Ashputtel, taking it for granted that she was safe at home in the dirt.
The king"s son soon came up to her, and took her by the hand and danced with her, and no one else: and he never left her hand; but when anyone else came to ask her to dance, he said, "This lady is dancing with me."
Thus they danced till a late hour of the night; and then she wanted to go home: and the king"s son said, "I shall go and take care of you to your home"; for he wanted to see where the beautiful maiden lived.
But she slipped away from him, unawares, and ran off towards home; and as the prince followed her, she jumped up into the pigeon-house and shut the door.
Then he waited till her father came home, and told him that the unknown maiden, who had been at the feast, had hid herself in the pigeon-house.
But when they had broken open the door they found no one within; and as they came back into the house, Ashputtel was lying, as she always did, in her dirty frock by the ashes, and her dim little lamp was burning in the chimney.
For she had run as quickly as she could through the pigeon-house and on to the hazel-tree, and had there taken off her beautiful clothes, and put them beneath the tree, that the bird might carry them away, and had lain down again amid the ashes in her little grey frock.
The next day when the feast was again held, and her father, mother, and sisters were gone, Ashputtel went to the hazel-tree, and said:
"Shake, shake, hazel-tree, Gold and silver over me!"
And the bird came and brought a still finer dress than the one she had worn the day before.
And when she came in it to the ball, everyone wondered at her beauty: but the king"s son, who was waiting for her, took her by the hand, and danced with her; and when anyone asked her to dance, he said as before, "This lady is dancing with me."
When night came she wanted to go home; and the king"s son followed here as before, that he might see into what house she went: but she sprang away from him all at once into the garden behind her father"s house.
In this garden stood a fine large pear-tree full of ripe fruit; and Ashputtel, not knowing where to hide herself, jumped up into it without being seen.
Then the king"s son lost sight of her, and could not find out where she was gone, but waited till her father came home, and said to him, "The unknown lady who danced with me has slipped away, and I think she must have sprung into the pear-tree."
The father thought to himself, "Can it be Ashputtel?"
So he had an axe brought; and they cut down the tree, but found no one upon it.
And when they came back into the kitchen, there lay Ashputtel among the ashes; for she had slipped down on the other side of the tree, and carried her beautiful clothes back to the bird at the hazel-tree, and then put on her little grey frock.
The third day, when her father and mother and sisters were gone, she went again into the garden, and said:
"Shake, shake, hazel-tree, Gold and silver over me!"
Then her kind friend the bird brought a dress still finer than the former one, and slippers which were all of gold: so that when she came to the feast no one knew what to say, for wonder at her beauty: and the king"s son danced with nobody but her; and when anyone else asked her to dance, he said, "This lady is /my/ partner, sir."
When night came she wanted to go home; and the king"s son would go with her, and said to himself, "I will not lose her this time"; but, however, she again slipped away from him, though in such a hurry that she dropped her left golden slipper upon the stairs.
The prince took the shoe, and went the next day to the king his father, and said, "I will take for my wife the lady that this golden slipper fits."
Then both the sisters were overjoyed to hear it; for they had beautiful feet, and had no doubt that they could wear the golden slipper.
The eldest went first into the room where the slipper was, and wanted to try it on, and the mother stood by.
But her great toe could not go into it, and the shoe was altogether much too small for her.
Then the mother gave her a knife, and said, "Never mind, cut it off; when you are queen you will not care about toes; you will not want to walk."
So the silly girl cut off her great toe, and thus squeezed on the shoe, and went to the king"s son.
Then he took her for his bride, and set her beside him on his horse, and rode away with her homewards.
But on their way home they had to pass by the hazel-tree that Ashputtel had planted; and on the branch sat a little dove singing:
"Back again! back again! look to the shoe!
The shoe is too small, and not made for you!
Prince! prince! look again for thy bride, For she"s not the true one that sits by thy side."
Then the prince got down and looked at her foot; and he saw, by the blood that streamed from it, what a trick she had played him.
So he turned his horse round, and brought the false bride back to her home, and said, "This is not the right bride; let the other sister try and put on the slipper."
Then she went into the room and got her foot into the shoe, all but the heel, which was too large.
But her mother squeezed it in till the blood came, and took her to the king"s son: and he set her as his bride by his side on his horse, and rode away with her.
But when they came to the hazel-tree the little dove sat there still, and sang:
"Back again! back again! look to the shoe!
The shoe is too small, and not made for you!
Prince! prince! look again for thy bride, For she"s not the true one that sits by thy side."
Then he looked down, and saw that the blood streamed so much from the shoe, that her white stockings were quite red.
So he turned his horse and brought her also back again.
"This is not the true bride," said he to the father; "have you no other daughters?"
"No," said he; "there is only a little dirty Ashputtel here, the child of my first wife; I am sure she cannot be the bride."
The prince told him to send her.
But the mother said, "No, no, she is much too dirty; she will not dare to show herself."
However, the prince would have her come; and she first washed her face and hands, and then went in and curtsied to him, and he reached her the golden slipper.
Then she took her clumsy shoe off her left foot, and put on the golden slipper; and it fitted her as if it had been made for her.
And when he drew near and looked at her face he knew her, and said, "This is the right bride."
But the mother and both the sisters were frightened, and turned pale with anger as he took Ashputtel on his horse, and rode away with her.
And when they came to the hazel-tree, the white dove sang:
"Home! home! look at the shoe!
Princess! the shoe was made for you!
Prince! prince! take home thy bride, For she is the true one that sits by thy side!"
And when the dove had done its song, it came flying, and perched upon her right shoulder, and so went home with her.
A king and queen once upon a time reigned in a country a great way off, where there were in those days fairies.
Now this king and queen had plenty of money, and plenty of fine clothes to wear, and plenty of good things to eat and drink, and a coach to ride out in every day: but though they had been married many years they had no children, and this grieved them very much indeed.
But one day as the queen was walking by the side of the river, at the bottom of the garden, she saw a poor little fish, that had thrown itself out of the water, and lay gasping and nearly dead on the bank.
Then the queen took pity on the little fish, and threw it back again into the river; and before it swam away it lifted its head out of the water and said, "I know what your wish is, and it shall be fulfilled, in return for your kindness to me--you will soon have a daughter."
What the little fish had foretold soon came to pass; and the queen had a little girl, so very beautiful that the king could not cease looking on it for joy, and said he would hold a great feast and make merry, and show the child to all the land.
So he asked his kinsmen, and nobles, and friends, and neighbours.
But the queen said, "I will have the fairies also, that they might be kind and good to our little daughter."
Now there were thirteen fairies in the kingdom; but as the king and queen had only twelve golden dishes for them to eat out of, they were forced to leave one of the fairies without asking her.
So twelve fairies came, each with a high red cap on her head, and red shoes with high heels on her feet, and a long white wand in her hand: and after the feast was over they gathered round in a ring and gave all their best gifts to the little princess.
One gave her goodness, another beauty, another riches, and so on till she had all that was good in the world.
Just as eleven of them had done blessing her, a great noise was heard in the courtyard, and word was brought that the thirteenth fairy was come, with a black cap on her head, and black shoes on her feet, and a broomstick in her hand: and presently up she came into the dininghall.
Now, as she had not been asked to the feast she was very angry, and scolded the king and queen very much, and set to work to take her revenge.
So she cried out, "The king"s daughter shall, in her fifteenth year, be wounded by a spindle, and fall down dead."
Then the twelfth of the friendly fairies, who had not yet given her gift, came forward, and said that the evil wish must be fulfilled, but that she could soften its mischief; so her gift was, that the king"s daughter, when the spindle wounded her, should not really die, but should only fall asleep for a hundred years.
However, the king hoped still to save his dear child altogether from the threatened evil; so he ordered that all the spindles in the kingdom should be bought up and burnt.
But all the gifts of the first eleven fairies were in the meantime fulfilled; for the princess was so beautiful, and well behaved, and good, and wise, that everyone who knew her loved her.
It happened that, on the very day she was fifteen years old, the king and queen were not at home, and she was left alone in the palace.
So she roved about by herself, and looked at all the rooms and chambers, till at last she came to an old tower, to which there was a narrow staircase ending with a little door.
In the door there was a golden key, and when she turned it the door sprang open, and there sat an old lady spinning away very busily.
"Why, how now, good mother," said the princess; "what are you doing there?"
"Spinning," said the old lady, and nodded her head, humming a tune, while buzz! went the wheel.
"How prettily that little thing turns round!" said the princess, and took the spindle and began to try and spin.
But scarcely had she touched it, before the fairy"s prophecy was fulfilled; the spindle wounded her, and she fell down lifeless on the ground.
However, she was not dead, but had only fallen into a deep sleep; and the king and the queen, who had just come home, and all their court, fell asleep too; and the horses slept in the stables, and the dogs in the court, the pigeons on the house-top, and the very flies slept upon the walls.
Even the fire on the hearth left off blazing, and went to sleep; the jack stopped, and the spit that was turning about with a goose upon it for the king"s dinner stood still; and the cook, who was at that moment pulling the kitchen-boy by the hair to give him a box on the ear for something he had done amiss, let him go, and both fell asleep; the butler, who was slyly tasting the ale, fell asleep with the jug at his lips: and thus everything stood still, and slept soundly.
A large hedge of thorns soon grew round the palace, and every year it became higher and thicker; till at last the old palace was surrounded and hidden, so that not even the roof or the chimneys could be seen.
But there went a report through all the land of the beautiful sleeping Briar Rose (for so the king"s daughter was called): so that, from time to time, several kings" sons came, and tried to break through the thicket into the palace.
This, however, none of them could ever do; for the thorns and bushes laid hold of them, as it were with hands; and there they stuck fast, and died wretchedly.
After many, many years there came a king"s son into that land: and an old man told him the story of the thicket of thorns; and how a beautiful palace stood behind it, and how a wonderful princess, called Briar Rose, lay in it asleep, with all her court.
He told, too, how he had heard from his grandfather that many, many princes had come, and had tried to break through the thicket, but that they had all stuck fast in it, and died.
Then the young prince said, "All this shall not frighten me; I will go and see this Briar Rose."
The old man tried to hinder him, but he was bent upon going.
Now that very day the hundred years were ended; and as the prince came to the thicket he saw nothing but beautiful flowering shrubs, through which he went with ease, and they shut in after him as thick as ever.
Then he came at last to the palace, and there in the court lay the dogs asleep; and the horses were standing in the stables; and on the roof sat the pigeons fast asleep, with their heads under their wings.
And when he came into the palace, the flies were sleeping on the walls; the spit was standing still; the butler had the jug of ale at his lips, going to drink a draught; the maid sat with a fowl in her lap ready to be plucked; and the cook in the kitchen was still holding up her hand, as if she was going to beat the boy.
Then he went on still farther, and all was so still that he could hear every breath he drew; till at last he came to the old tower, and opened the door of the little room in which Briar Rose was; and there she lay, fast asleep on a couch by the window.
She looked so beautiful that he could not take his eyes off her, so he stooped down and gave her a kiss.
But the moment he kissed her she opened her eyes and awoke, and smiled upon him; and they went out together; and soon the king and queen also awoke, and all the court, and gazed on each other with great wonder.
And the horses shook themselves, and the dogs jumped up and barked; the pigeons took their heads from under their wings, and looked about and flew into the fields; the flies on the walls buzzed again; the fire in the kitchen blazed up; round went the jack, and round went the spit, with the goose for the king"s dinner upon it; the butler finished his draught of ale; the maid went on plucking the fowl; and the cook gave the boy the box on his ear.
And then the prince and Briar Rose were married, and the wedding feast was given; and they lived happily together all their lives long.
There was once a king, whose queen had hair of the purest gold, and was so beautiful that her match was not to be met with on the whole face of the earth.
But this beautiful queen fell ill, and when she felt that her end drew near she called the king to her and said, "Promise me that you will never marry again, unless you meet with a wife who is as beautiful as I am, and who has golden hair like mine."
Then when the king in his grief promised all she asked, she shut her eyes and died.
But the king was not to be comforted, and for a long time never thought of taking another wife.
At last, however, his wise men said, "this will not do; the king must marry again, that we may have a queen."
So messengers were sent far and wide, to seek for a bride as beautiful as the late queen.
But there was no princess in the world so beautiful; and if there had been, still there was not one to be found who had golden hair.
So the messengers came home, and had had all their trouble for nothing.
Now the king had a daughter, who was just as beautiful as her mother, and had the same golden hair.
And when she was grown up, the king looked at her and saw that she was just like this late queen: then he said to his courtiers, "May I not marry my daughter?
She is the very image of my dead wife: unless I have her, I shall not find any bride upon the whole earth, and you say there must be a queen."
When the courtiers heard this they were shocked, and said, "Heaven forbid that a father should marry his daughter!
Out of so great a sin no good can come."
And his daughter was also shocked, but hoped the king would soon give up such thoughts; so she said to him, "Before I marry anyone I must have three dresses: one must be of gold, like the sun; another must be of shining silver, like the moon; and a third must be dazzling as the stars: besides this, I want a mantle of a thousand different kinds of fur put together, to which every beast in the kingdom must give a part of his skin."
And thus she though he would think of the matter no more.
But the king made the most skilful workmen in his kingdom weave the three dresses: one golden, like the sun; another silvery, like the moon; and a third sparkling, like the stars: and his hunters were told to hunt out all the beasts in his kingdom, and to take the finest fur out of their skins: and thus a mantle of a thousand furs was made.
When all were ready, the king sent them to her; but she got up in the night when all were asleep, and took three of her trinkets, a golden ring, a golden necklace, and a golden brooch, and packed the three dresses--of the sun, the moon, and the stars--up in a nutshell, and wrapped herself up in the mantle made of all sorts of fur, and besmeared her face and hands with soot.
Then she threw herself upon Heaven for help in her need, and went away, and journeyed on the whole night, till at last she came to a large wood.
As she was very tired, she sat herself down in the hollow of a tree and soon fell asleep: and there she slept on till it was midday.
Now as the king to whom the wood belonged was hunting in it, his dogs came to the tree, and began to snuff about, and run round and round, and bark.
"Look sharp!" said the king to the huntsmen, "and see what sort of game lies there."
And the huntsmen went up to the tree, and when they came back again said, "In the hollow tree there lies a most wonderful beast, such as we never saw before; its skin seems to be of a thousand kinds of fur, but there it lies fast asleep."
"See," said the king, "if you can catch it alive, and we will take it with us."
So the huntsmen took it up, and the maiden awoke and was greatly frightened, and said, "I am a poor child that has neither father nor mother left; have pity on me and take me with you."
Then they said, "Yes, Miss Cat-skin, you will do for the kitchen; you can sweep up the ashes, and do things of that sort."
So they put her into the coach, and took her home to the king"s palace.
Then they showed her a little corner under the staircase, where no light of day ever peeped in, and said, "Cat-skin, you may lie and sleep there."
And she was sent into the kitchen, and made to fetch wood and water, to blow the fire, pluck the poultry, pick the herbs, sift the ashes, and do all the dirty work.
Thus Cat-skin lived for a long time very sorrowfully.
"Ah! pretty princess!" thought she, "what will now become of thee?"
But it happened one day that a feast was to be held in the king"s castle, so she said to the cook, "May I go up a little while and see what is going on?
I will take care and stand behind the door."
And the cook said, "Yes, you may go, but be back again in half an hour"s time, to rake out the ashes."
Then she took her little lamp, and went into her cabin, and took off the fur skin, and washed the soot from off her face and hands, so that her beauty shone forth like the sun from behind the clouds.
She next opened her nutshell, and brought out of it the dress that shone like the sun, and so went to the feast.
Everyone made way for her, for nobody knew her, and they thought she could be no less than a king"s daughter.
But the king came up to her, and held out his hand and danced with her; and he thought in his heart, "I never saw any one half so beautiful."
When the dance was at an end she curtsied; and when the king looked round for her, she was gone, no one knew wither.
The guards that stood at the castle gate were called in: but they had seen no one.
The truth was, that she had run into her little cabin, pulled off her dress, blackened her face and hands, put on the fur-skin cloak, and was Catskin again.
When she went into the kitchen to her work, and began to rake the ashes, the cook said, "Let that alone till the morning, and heat the king"s soup; I should like to run up now and give a peep: but take care you don"t let a hair fall into it, or you will run a chance of never eating again."
As soon as the cook went away, Cat-skin heated the king"s soup, and toasted a slice of bread first, as nicely as ever she could; and when it was ready, she went and looked in the cabin for her little golden ring, and put it into the dish in which the soup was.
When the dance was over, the king ordered his soup to be brought in; and it pleased him so well, that he thought he had never tasted any so good before.
At the bottom he saw a gold ring lying; and as he could not make out how it had got there, he ordered the cook to be sent for.
The cook was frightened when he heard the order, and said to Cat-skin, "You must have let a hair fall into the soup; if it be so, you will have a good beating."
Then he went before the king, and he asked him who had cooked the soup.
"I did," answered the cook.
But the king said, "That is not true; it was better done than you could do it."
Then he answered, "To tell the truth I did not cook it, but Cat-skin did."
"Then let Cat-skin come up," said the king: and when she came he said to her, "Who are you?"
"I am a poor child," said she, "that has lost both father and mother."
"How came you in my palace?" asked he.
"I am good for nothing," said she, "but to be scullion-girl, and to have boots and shoes thrown at my head."
"But how did you get the ring that was in the soup?" asked the king.
Then she would not own that she knew anything about the ring; so the king sent her away again about her business.
After a time there was another feast, and Cat-skin asked the cook to let her go up and see it as before.
"Yes," said he, "but come again in half an hour, and cook the king the soup that he likes so much."
Then she ran to her little cabin, washed herself quickly, and took her dress out which was silvery as the moon, and put it on; and when she went in, looking like a king"s daughter, the king went up to her, and rejoiced at seeing her again, and when the dance began he danced with her.
After the dance was at an end she managed to slip out, so slyly that the king did not see where she was gone; but she sprang into her little cabin, and made herself into Cat-skin again, and went into the kitchen to cook the soup.
Whilst the cook was above stairs, she got the golden necklace and dropped it into the soup; then it was brought to the king, who ate it, and it pleased him as well as before; so he sent for the cook, who was again forced to tell him that Cat-skin had cooked it.
Cat-skin was brought again before the king, but she still told him that she was only fit to have boots and shoes thrown at her head.
But when the king had ordered a feast to be got ready for the third time, it happened just the same as before.
"You must be a witch, Catskin," said the cook; "for you always put something into your soup, so that it pleases the king better than mine."
However, he let her go up as before.
Then she put on her dress which sparkled like the stars, and went into the ball-room in it; and the king danced with her again, and thought she had never looked so beautiful as she did then.
So whilst he was dancing with her, he put a gold ring on her finger without her seeing it, and ordered that the dance should be kept up a long time.
When it was at an end, he would have held her fast by the hand, but she slipped away, and sprang so quickly through the crowd that he lost sight of her: and she ran as fast as she could into her little cabin under the stairs.
But this time she kept away too long, and stayed beyond the half-hour; so she had not time to take off her fine dress, and threw her fur mantle over it, and in her haste did not blacken herself all over with soot, but left one of her fingers white.
Then she ran into the kitchen, and cooked the king"s soup; and as soon as the cook was gone, she put the golden brooch into the dish.
When the king got to the bottom, he ordered Cat-skin to be called once more, and soon saw the white finger, and the ring that he had put on it whilst they were dancing: so he seized her hand, and kept fast hold of it, and when she wanted to loose herself and spring away, the fur cloak fell off a little on one side, and the starry dress sparkled underneath it.
Then he got hold of the fur and tore it off, and her golden hair and beautiful form were seen, and she could no longer hide herself: so she washed the soot and ashes from her face, and showed herself to be the most beautiful princess upon the face of the earth.
But the king said, "You are my beloved bride, and we will never more be parted from each other."
And the wedding feast was held, and a merry day it was, as ever was heard of or seen in that country, or indeed in any other.
A certain cat had made the acquaintance of a mouse, and had said so much to her about the great love and friendship she felt for her, that at length the mouse agreed that they should live and keep house together.
"But we must make a provision for winter, or else we shall suffer from hunger," said the cat; "and you, little mouse, cannot venture everywhere, or you will be caught in a trap some day."
The good advice was followed, and a pot of fat was bought, but they did not know where to put it.
At length, after much consideration, the cat said: "I know no place where it will be better stored up than in the church, for no one dares take anything away from there.
We will set it beneath the altar, and not touch it until we are really in need of it."
So the pot was placed in safety, but it was not long before the cat had a great yearning for it, and said to the mouse: "I want to tell you something, little mouse; my cousin has brought a little son into the world, and has asked me to be godmother; he is white with brown spots, and I am to hold him over the font at the christening.
Let me go out today, and you look after the house by yourself."
"Yes, yes," answered the mouse, "by all means go, and if you get anything very good to eat, think of me.
I should like a drop of sweet red christening wine myself."
All this, however, was untrue; the cat had no cousin, and had not been asked to be godmother.
She went straight to the church, stole to the pot of fat, began to lick at it, and licked the top of the fat off.
Then she took a walk upon the roofs of the town, looked out for opportunities, and then stretched herself in the sun, and licked her lips whenever she thought of the pot of fat, and not until it was evening did she return home.
"Well, here you are again," said the mouse, "no doubt you have had a merry day."
"All went off well," answered the cat.
"What name did they give the child?"
"Top off!" said the cat quite coolly.
"Top off!" cried the mouse, "that is a very odd and uncommon name, is it a usual one in your family?"
"What does that matter," said the cat, "it is no worse than Crumb-stealer, as your godchildren are called."
Before long the cat was seized by another fit of yearning.
She said to the mouse: "You must do me a favour, and once more manage the house for a day alone.
I am again asked to be godmother, and, as the child has a white ring round its neck, I cannot refuse."
The good mouse consented, but the cat crept behind the town walls to the church, and devoured half the pot of fat.
"Nothing ever seems so good as what one keeps to oneself," said she, and was quite satisfied with her day"s work.
When she went home the mouse inquired: "And what was the child christened?"
"Half-done," answered the cat.
"Half-done!
What are you saying?
I never heard the name in my life, I"ll wager anything it is not in the calendar!"
The cat"s mouth soon began to water for some more licking.
"All good things go in threes," said she, "I am asked to stand godmother again.
The child is quite black, only it has white paws, but with that exception, it has not a single white hair on its whole body; this only happens once every few years, you will let me go, won"t you?"
"Topoff!
Half-done!" answered the mouse, "they are such odd names, they make me very thoughtful."
"You sit at home," said the cat, "in your dark-grey fur coat and long tail, and are filled with fancies, that"s because you do not go out in the daytime."
During the cat"s absence the mouse cleaned the house, and put it in order, but the greedy cat entirely emptied the pot of fat.
"When everything is eaten up one has some peace," said she to herself, and well filled and fat she did not return home till night.
The mouse at once asked what name had been given to the third child.
"It will not please you more than the others," said the cat.
"He is called All-gone."
"All-gone," cried the mouse "that is the most suspicious name of all!
I have never seen it in print.
All-gone; what can that mean?" and she shook her head, curled herself up, and lay down to sleep.
From this time forth no one invited the cat to be godmother, but when the winter had come and there was no longer anything to be found outside, the mouse thought of their provision, and said: "Come, cat, we will go to our pot of fat which we have stored up for ourselves--we shall enjoy that."
"Yes," answered the cat, "you will enjoy it as much as you would enjoy sticking that dainty tongue of yours out of the window."
They set out on their way, but when they arrived, the pot of fat certainly was still in its place, but it was empty.
"Alas!" said the mouse, "now I see what has happened, now it comes to light!
You a true friend!
You have devoured all when you were standing godmother.
First top off, then half-done, then--" "Will you hold your tongue," cried the cat, "one word more, and I will eat you too."
"All-gone" was already on the poor mouse"s lips; scarcely had she spoken it before the cat sprang on her, seized her, and swallowed her down.
Verily, that is the way of the world.
There was once a man who had a daughter who was called Clever Elsie.
And when she had grown up her father said: "We will get her married."
"Yes," said the mother, "if only someone would come who would have her."
At length a man came from a distance and wooed her, who was called Hans; but he stipulated that Clever Elsie should be really smart.
"Oh," said the father, "she has plenty of good sense"; and the mother said: "Oh, she can see the wind coming up the street, and hear the flies coughing."
"Well," said Hans, "if she is not really smart, I won"t have her."
When they were sitting at dinner and had eaten, the mother said: "Elsie, go into the cellar and fetch some beer."
Then Clever Elsie took the pitcher from the wall, went into the cellar, and tapped the lid briskly as she went, so that the time might not appear long.
When she was below she fetched herself a chair, and set it before the barrel so that she had no need to stoop, and did not hurt her back or do herself any unexpected injury.
Then she placed the can before her, and turned the tap, and while the beer was running she would not let her eyes be idle, but looked up at the wall, and after much peering here and there, saw a pick-axe exactly above her, which the masons had accidentally left there.
Then Clever Elsie began to weep and said: "If I get Hans, and we have a child, and he grows big, and we send him into the cellar here to draw beer, then the pick-axe will fall on his head and kill him."
Then she sat and wept and screamed with all the strength of her body, over the misfortune which lay before her.
Those upstairs waited for the drink, but Clever Elsie still did not come.
Then the woman said to the servant: "Just go down into the cellar and see where Elsie is."
The maid went and found her sitting in front of the barrel, screaming loudly.
"Elsie why do you weep?" asked the maid.
"Ah," she answered, "have I not reason to weep?
If I get Hans, and we have a child, and he grows big, and has to draw beer here, the pick-axe will perhaps fall on his head, and kill him."
Then said the maid: "What a clever Elsie we have!" and sat down beside her and began loudly to weep over the misfortune.
After a while, as the maid did not come back, and those upstairs were thirsty for the beer, the man said to the boy: "Just go down into the cellar and see where Elsie and the girl are."
The boy went down, and there sat Clever Elsie and the girl both weeping together.
Then he asked: "Why are you weeping?"
"Ah," said Elsie, "have I not reason to weep?
If I get Hans, and we have a child, and he grows big, and has to draw beer here, the pick-axe will fall on his head and kill him."
Then said the boy: "What a clever Elsie we have!" and sat down by her, and likewise began to howl loudly.
Upstairs they waited for the boy, but as he still did not return, the man said to the woman: "Just go down into the cellar and see where Elsie is!"
The woman went down, and found all three in the midst of their lamentations, and inquired what was the cause; then Elsie told her also that her future child was to be killed by the pick-axe, when it grew big and had to draw beer, and the pick-axe fell down.
Then said the mother likewise: "What a clever Elsie we have!" and sat down and wept with them.
The man upstairs waited a short time, but as his wife did not come back and his thirst grew ever greater, he said: "I must go into the cellar myself and see where Elsie is."
But when he got into the cellar, and they were all sitting together crying, and he heard the reason, and that Elsie"s child was the cause, and the Elsie might perhaps bring one into the world some day, and that he might be killed by the pick-axe, if he should happen to be sitting beneath it, drawing beer just at the very time when it fell down, he cried: "Oh, what a clever Elsie!" and sat down, and likewise wept with them.
The bridegroom stayed upstairs alone for along time; then as no one would come back he thought: "They must be waiting for me below: I too must go there and see what they are about."
When he got down, the five of them were sitting screaming and lamenting quite piteously, each outdoing the other.
"What misfortune has happened then?" asked he.
"Ah, dear Hans," said Elsie, "if we marry each other and have a child, and he is big, and we perhaps send him here to draw something to drink, then the pick-axe which has been left up there might dash his brains out if it were to fall down, so have we not reason to weep?"
"Come," said Hans, "more understanding than that is not needed for my household, as you are such a clever Elsie, I will have you," and seized her hand, took her upstairs with him, and married her.
After Hans had had her some time, he said: "Wife, I am going out to work and earn some money for us; go into the field and cut the corn that we may have some bread."
"Yes, dear Hans, I will do that."
After Hans had gone away, she cooked herself some good broth and took it into the field with her.
When she came to the field she said to herself: "What shall I do; shall I cut first, or shall I eat first?
Oh, I will eat first."
Then she drank her cup of broth and when she was fully satisfied, she once more said: "What shall I do?
Shall I cut first, or shall I sleep first?
I will sleep first."
Then she lay down among the corn and fell asleep.
Hans had been at home for a long time, but Elsie did not come; then said he: "What a clever Elsie I have; she is so industrious that she does not even come home to eat."
But when evening came and she still stayed away, Hans went out to see what she had cut, but nothing was cut, and she was lying among the corn asleep.
Then Hans hastened home and brought a fowler"s net with little bells and hung it round about her, and she still went on sleeping.
Then he ran home, shut the house-door, and sat down in his chair and worked.
At length, when it was quite dark, Clever Elsie awoke and when she got up there was a jingling all round about her, and the bells rang at each step which she took.
Then she was alarmed, and became uncertain whether she really was Clever Elsie or not, and said: "Is it I, or is it not I?"
But she knew not what answer to make to this, and stood for a time in doubt; at length she thought: "I will go home and ask if it be I, or if it be not I, they will be sure to know."
She ran to the door of her own house, but it was shut; then she knocked at the window and cried: "Hans, is Elsie within?"
"Yes," answered Hans, "she is within."
Hereupon she was terrified, and said: "Ah, heavens!
Then it is not I," and went to another door; but when the people heard the jingling of the bells they would not open it, and she could get in nowhere.
Then she ran out of the village, and no one has seen her since.
There was once a cook named Gretel, who wore shoes with red heels, and when she walked out with them on, she turned herself this way and that, was quite happy and thought: "You certainly are a pretty girl!"
And when she came home she drank, in her gladness of heart, a draught of wine, and as wine excites a desire to eat, she tasted the best of whatever she was cooking until she was satisfied, and said: "The cook must know what the food is like."
It came to pass that the master one day said to her: "Gretel, there is a guest coming this evening; prepare me two fowls very daintily."
"I will see to it, master," answered Gretel.
She killed two fowls, scalded them, plucked them, put them on the spit, and towards evening set them before the fire, that they might roast.
The fowls began to turn brown, and were nearly ready, but the guest had not yet arrived.
Then Gretel called out to her master: "If the guest does not come, I must take the fowls away from the fire, but it will be a sin and a shame if they are not eaten the moment they are at their juiciest."
The master said: "I will run myself, and fetch the guest."
When the master had turned his back, Gretel laid the spit with the fowls on one side, and thought: "Standing so long by the fire there, makes one sweat and thirsty; who knows when they will come?
Meanwhile, I will run into the cellar, and take a drink."
She ran down, set a jug, said: "God bless it for you, Gretel," and took a good drink, and thought that wine should flow on, and should not be interrupted, and took yet another hearty draught.
Then she went and put the fowls down again to the fire, basted them, and drove the spit merrily round.
But as the roast meat smelt so good, Gretel thought: "Something might be wrong, it ought to be tasted!"
She touched it with her finger, and said: "Ah! how good fowls are!
It certainly is a sin and a shame that they are not eaten at the right time!"
She ran to the window, to see if the master was not coming with his guest, but she saw no one, and went back to the fowls and thought: "One of the wings is burning!
I had better take it off and eat it."
So she cut it off, ate it, and enjoyed it, and when she had done, she thought: "The other must go down too, or else master will observe that something is missing."
When the two wings were eaten, she went and looked for her master, and did not see him.
It suddenly occurred to her: "Who knows?
They are perhaps not coming at all, and have turned in somewhere."
Then she said: "Well, Gretel, enjoy yourself, one fowl has been cut into, take another drink, and eat it up entirely; when it is eaten you will have some peace, why should God"s good gifts be spoilt?"
So she ran into the cellar again, took an enormous drink and ate up the one chicken in great glee.
When one of the chickens was swallowed down, and still her master did not come, Gretel looked at the other and said: "What one is, the other should be likewise, the two go together; what"s right for the one is right for the other; I think if I were to take another draught it would do me no harm."
So she took another hearty drink, and let the second chicken follow the first.
While she was making the most of it, her master came and cried: "Hurry up, Gretel, the guest is coming directly after me!"
"Yes, sir, I will soon serve up," answered Gretel.
Meantime the master looked to see what the table was properly laid, and took the great knife, wherewith he was going to carve the chickens, and sharpened it on the steps.
Presently the guest came, and knocked politely and courteously at the house-door.
Gretel ran, and looked to see who was there, and when she saw the guest, she put her finger to her lips and said: "Hush! hush! go away as quickly as you can, if my master catches you it will be the worse for you; he certainly did ask you to supper, but his intention is to cut off your two ears.
Just listen how he is sharpening the knife for it!"
The guest heard the sharpening, and hurried down the steps again as fast as he could.
Gretel was not idle; she ran screaming to her master, and cried: "You have invited a fine guest!"
"Why, Gretel?
What do you mean by that?"
"Yes," said she, "he has taken the chickens which I was just going to serve up, off the dish, and has run away with them!"
"That"s a nice trick!" said her master, and lamented the fine chickens.
"If he had but left me one, so that something remained for me to eat."
He called to him to stop, but the guest pretended not to hear.
Then he ran after him with the knife still in his hand, crying: "Just one, just one," meaning that the guest should leave him just one chicken, and not take both.
The guest, however, thought no otherwise than that he was to give up one of his ears, and ran as if fire were burning under him, in order to take them both with him.
The mother of Hans said: "Whither away, Hans?"
Hans answered: "To Gretel."
"Behave well, Hans."
"Oh, I"ll behave well.
Goodbye, mother."
"Goodbye, Hans."
Hans comes to Gretel.
"Good day, Gretel."
"Good day, Hans.
What do you bring that is good?"
"I bring nothing, I want to have something given me."
Gretel presents Hans with a needle, Hans says: "Goodbye, Gretel."
"Goodbye, Hans."
Hans takes the needle, sticks it into a hay-cart, and follows the cart home.
"Good evening, mother."
"Good evening, Hans.
Where have you been?"
"With Gretel."
"What did you take her?"
"Took nothing; had something given me."
"What did Gretel give you?"
"Gave me a needle."
"Where is the needle, Hans?"
"Stuck in the hay-cart."
"That was ill done, Hans.
You should have stuck the needle in your sleeve."
"Never mind, I"ll do better next time."
"Whither away, Hans?"
"To Gretel, mother."
"Behave well, Hans."
"Oh, I"ll behave well.
Goodbye, mother."
"Goodbye, Hans."
Hans comes to Gretel.
"Good day, Gretel."
"Good day, Hans.
What do you bring that is good?"
"I bring nothing.
I want to have something given to me."
Gretel presents Hans with a knife.
"Goodbye, Gretel."
"Goodbye, Hans."
Hans takes the knife, sticks it in his sleeve, and goes home.
"Good evening, mother."
"Good evening, Hans.
Where have you been?"
"With Gretel."
What did you take her?"
"Took her nothing, she gave me something."
"What did Gretel give you?"
"Gave me a knife."
"Where is the knife, Hans?"
"Stuck in my sleeve."
"That"s ill done, Hans, you should have put the knife in your pocket."
"Never mind, will do better next time."
"Whither away, Hans?"
"To Gretel, mother."
"Behave well, Hans."
"Oh, I"ll behave well.
Goodbye, mother."
"Goodbye, Hans."
Hans comes to Gretel.
"Good day, Gretel."
"Good day, Hans.
What good thing do you bring?"
"I bring nothing, I want something given me."
Gretel presents Hans with a young goat.
"Goodbye, Gretel."
"Goodbye, Hans."
Hans takes the goat, ties its legs, and puts it in his pocket.
When he gets home it is suffocated.
"Good evening, mother."
"Good evening, Hans.
Where have you been?"
"With Gretel."
"What did you take her?"
"Took nothing, she gave me something."
"What did Gretel give you?"
"She gave me a goat."
"Where is the goat, Hans?"
"Put it in my pocket."
"That was ill done, Hans, you should have put a rope round the goat"s neck."
"Never mind, will do better next time."
"Whither away, Hans?"
"To Gretel, mother."
"Behave well, Hans."
"Oh, I"ll behave well.
Goodbye, mother."
"Goodbye, Hans."
Hans comes to Gretel.
"Good day, Gretel."
"Good day, Hans.
What good thing do you bring?"
"I bring nothing, I want something given me."
Gretel presents Hans with a piece of bacon.
"Goodbye, Gretel."
"Goodbye, Hans."
Hans takes the bacon, ties it to a rope, and drags it away behind him.
The dogs come and devour the bacon.
When he gets home, he has the rope in his hand, and there is no longer anything hanging on to it.
"Good evening, mother."
"Good evening, Hans.
Where have you been?"
"With Gretel."
"What did you take her?"
"I took her nothing, she gave me something."
"What did Gretel give you?"
"Gave me a bit of bacon."
"Where is the bacon, Hans?"
"I tied it to a rope, brought it home, dogs took it."
"That was ill done, Hans, you should have carried the bacon on your head."
"Never mind, will do better next time."
"Whither away, Hans?"
"To Gretel, mother."
"Behave well, Hans."
"I"ll behave well.
Goodbye, mother."
"Goodbye, Hans."
Hans comes to Gretel.
"Good day, Gretel."
"Good day, Hans, What good thing do you bring?"
"I bring nothing, but would have something given."
Gretel presents Hans with a calf.
"Goodbye, Gretel."
"Goodbye, Hans."
Hans takes the calf, puts it on his head, and the calf kicks his face.
"Good evening, mother."
"Good evening, Hans.
Where have you been?"
"With Gretel."
"What did you take her?"
"I took nothing, but had something given me."
"What did Gretel give you?"
"A calf."
"Where have you the calf, Hans?"
"I set it on my head and it kicked my face."
"That was ill done, Hans, you should have led the calf, and put it in the stall."
"Never mind, will do better next time."
"Whither away, Hans?"
"To Gretel, mother."
"Behave well, Hans."
"I"ll behave well.
Goodbye, mother."
"Goodbye, Hans."
Hans comes to Gretel.
"Good day, Gretel."
"Good day, Hans.
What good thing do you bring?"
"I bring nothing, but would have something given."
Gretel says to Hans: "I will go with you."
Hans takes Gretel, ties her to a rope, leads her to the rack, and binds her fast.
Then Hans goes to his mother.
"Good evening, mother."
"Good evening, Hans.
Where have you been?"
"With Gretel."
"What did you take her?"
"I took her nothing."
"What did Gretel give you?"
"She gave me nothing, she came with me."
"Where have you left Gretel?"
"I led her by the rope, tied her to the rack, and scattered some grass for her."
"That was ill done, Hans, you should have cast friendly eyes on her."
"Never mind, will do better."
Hans went into the stable, cut out all the calves" and sheep"s eyes, and threw them in Gretel"s face.
Then Gretel became angry, tore herself loose and ran away, and was no longer the bride of Hans.
There was once upon a time a poor peasant called Crabb, who drove with two oxen a load of wood to the town, and sold it to a doctor for two talers.
When the money was being counted out to him, it so happened that the doctor was sitting at table, and when the peasant saw how well he ate and drank, his heart desired what he saw, and would willingly have been a doctor too.
So he remained standing a while, and at length inquired if he too could not be a doctor.
"Oh, yes," said the doctor, "that is soon managed."
"What must I do?" asked the peasant.
"In the first place buy yourself an A B C book of the kind which has a cock on the frontispiece; in the second, turn your cart and your two oxen into money, and get yourself some clothes, and whatsoever else pertains to medicine; thirdly, have a sign painted for yourself with the words: "I am Doctor Knowall," and have that nailed up above your house-door."
The peasant did everything that he had been told to do.
When he had doctored people awhile, but not long, a rich and great lord had some money stolen.
Then he was told about Doctor Knowall who lived in such and such a village, and must know what had become of the money.
So the lord had the horses harnessed to his carriage, drove out to the village, and asked Crabb if he were Doctor Knowall.
Yes, he was, he said.
Then he was to go with him and bring back the stolen money.
"Oh, yes, but Grete, my wife, must go too."
The lord was willing, and let both of them have a seat in the carriage, and they all drove away together.
When they came to the nobleman"s castle, the table was spread, and Crabb was told to sit down and eat.
"Yes, but my wife, Grete, too," said he, and he seated himself with her at the table.
And when the first servant came with a dish of delicate fare, the peasant nudged his wife, and said: "Grete, that was the first," meaning that was the servant who brought the first dish.
The servant, however, thought he intended by that to say: "That is the first thief," and as he actually was so, he was terrified, and said to his comrade outside: "The doctor knows all: we shall fare ill, he said I was the first."
The second did not want to go in at all, but was forced.
So when he went in with his dish, the peasant nudged his wife, and said: "Grete, that is the second."
This servant was equally alarmed, and he got out as fast as he could.
The third fared no better, for the peasant again said: "Grete, that is the third."
The fourth had to carry in a dish that was covered, and the lord told the doctor that he was to show his skill, and guess what was beneath the cover.
Actually, there were crabs.
The doctor looked at the dish, had no idea what to say, and cried: "Ah, poor Crabb."
When the lord heard that, he cried: "There! he knows it; he must also know who has the money!"
On this the servants looked terribly uneasy, and made a sign to the doctor that they wished him to step outside for a moment.
When therefore he went out, all four of them confessed to him that they had stolen the money, and said that they would willingly restore it and give him a heavy sum into the bargain, if he would not denounce them, for if he did they would be hanged.
They led him to the spot where the money was concealed.
With this the doctor was satisfied, and returned to the hall, sat down to the table, and said: "My lord, now will I search in my book where the gold is hidden."
The fifth servant, however, crept into the stove to hear if the doctor knew still more.
But the doctor sat still and opened his A B C book, turned the pages backwards and forwards, and looked for the cock.
As he could not find it immediately he said: "I know you are there, so you had better come out!"
Then the fellow in the stove thought that the doctor meant him, and full of terror, sprang out, crying: "That man knows everything!"
Then Doctor Knowall showed the lord where the money was, but did not say who had stolen it, and received from both sides much money in reward, and became a renowned man.
There was once upon a time an old fox with nine tails, who believed that his wife was not faithful to him, and wished to put her to the test.
He stretched himself out under the bench, did not move a limb, and behaved as if he were stone dead.
Mrs Fox went up to her room, shut herself in, and her maid, Miss Cat, sat by the fire, and did the cooking.
When it became known that the old fox was dead, suitors presented themselves.
The maid heard someone standing at the housedoor, knocking.
She went and opened it, and it was a young fox, who said:
"What may you be about, Miss Cat?
Do you sleep or do you wake?"
She answered:
"I am not sleeping, I am waking, Would you know what I am making?
I am boiling warm beer with butter, Will you be my guest for supper?"
"No, thank you, miss," said the fox, "what is Mrs Fox doing?"
The maid replied:
"She is sitting in her room, Moaning in her gloom, Weeping her little eyes quite red, Because old Mr Fox is dead."
"Do just tell her, miss, that a young fox is here, who would like to woo her."
"Certainly, young sir."
The cat goes up the stairs trip, trap, The door she knocks at tap, tap, tap, "Mistress Fox, are you inside?"
"Oh, yes, my little cat," she cried.
"A wooer he stands at the door out there."
"What does he look like, my dear?"
"Has he nine as beautiful tails as the late Mr Fox?"
"Oh, no," answered the cat, "he has only one."
"Then I will not have him."
Miss Cat went downstairs and sent the wooer away.
Soon afterwards there was another knock, and another fox was at the door who wished to woo Mrs Fox.
He had two tails, but he did not fare better than the first.
After this still more came, each with one tail more than the other, but they were all turned away, until at last one came who had nine tails, like old Mr Fox.
When the widow heard that, she said joyfully to the cat:
"Now open the gates and doors all wide, And carry old Mr Fox outside."
But just as the wedding was going to be solemnized, old Mr Fox stirred under the bench, and cudgelled all the rabble, and drove them and Mrs Fox out of the house.
There was once a man called Frederick: he had a wife whose name was Catherine, and they had not long been married.
One day Frederick said.
"Kate!
I am going to work in the fields; when I come back I shall be hungry so let me have something nice cooked, and a good draught of ale."
"Very well," said she, "it shall all be ready."
When dinner-time drew nigh, Catherine took a nice steak, which was all the meat she had, and put it on the fire to fry.
The steak soon began to look brown, and to crackle in the pan; and Catherine stood by with a fork and turned it: then she said to herself, "The steak is almost ready, I may as well go to the cellar for the ale."
So she left the pan on the fire and took a large jug and went into the cellar and tapped the ale cask.
The beer ran into the jug and Catherine stood looking on.
At last it popped into her head, "The dog is not shut up--he may be running away with the steak; that"s well thought of."
So up she ran from the cellar; and sure enough the rascally cur had got the steak in his mouth, and was making off with it.
Away ran Catherine, and away ran the dog across the field: but he ran faster than she, and stuck close to the steak.
"It"s all gone, and "what can"t be cured must be endured"," said Catherine.
So she turned round; and as she had run a good way and was tired, she walked home leisurely to cool herself.
Now all this time the ale was running too, for Catherine had not turned the cock; and when the jug was full the liquor ran upon the floor till the cask was empty.
When she got to the cellar stairs she saw what had happened.
"My stars!" said she, "what shall I do to keep Frederick from seeing all this slopping about?"
So she thought a while; and at last remembered that there was a sack of fine meal bought at the last fair, and that if she sprinkled this over the floor it would suck up the ale nicely.
"What a lucky thing," said she, "that we kept that meal! we have now a good use for it."
So away she went for it: but she managed to set it down just upon the great jug full of beer, and upset it; and thus all the ale that had been saved was set swimming on the floor also.
"Ah! well," said she, "when one goes another may as well follow."
Then she strewed the meal all about the cellar, and was quite pleased with her cleverness, and said, "How very neat and clean it looks!"
At noon Frederick came home.
"Now, wife," cried he, "what have you for dinner?"
"O Frederick!" answered she, "I was cooking you a steak; but while I went down to draw the ale, the dog ran away with it; and while I ran after him, the ale ran out; and when I went to dry up the ale with the sack of meal that we got at the fair, I upset the jug: but the cellar is now quite dry, and looks so clean!"
"Kate, Kate," said he, "how could you do all this?"
Why did you leave the steak to fry, and the ale to run, and then spoil all the meal?"
"Why, Frederick," said she, "I did not know I was doing wrong; you should have told me before."
The husband thought to himself, "If my wife manages matters thus, I must look sharp myself."
Now he had a good deal of gold in the house: so he said to Catherine, "What pretty yellow buttons these are!
I shall put them into a box and bury them in the garden; but take care that you never go near or meddle with them."
"No, Frederick," said she, "that I never will."
As soon as he was gone, there came by some pedlars with earthenware plates and dishes, and they asked her whether she would buy.
"Oh dear me, I should like to buy very much, but I have no money: if you had any use for yellow buttons, I might deal with you."
"Yellow buttons!" said they: "let us have a look at them."
"Go into the garden and dig where I tell you, and you will find the yellow buttons: I dare not go myself."
So the rogues went: and when they found what these yellow buttons were, they took them all away, and left her plenty of plates and dishes.
Then she set them all about the house for a show: and when Frederick came back, he cried out, "Kate, what have you been doing?"
"See," said she, "I have bought all these with your yellow buttons: but I did not touch them myself; the pedlars went themselves and dug them up."
"Wife, wife," said Frederick, "what a pretty piece of work you have made! those yellow buttons were all my money: how came you to do such a thing?"
"Why," answered she, "I did not know there was any harm in it; you should have told me."
Catherine stood musing for a while, and at last said to her husband, "Hark ye, Frederick, we will soon get the gold back: let us run after the thieves."
"Well, we will try," answered he; "but take some butter and cheese with you, that we may have something to eat by the way."
"Very well," said she; and they set out: and as Frederick walked the fastest, he left his wife some way behind.
"It does not matter," thought she: "when we turn back, I shall be so much nearer home than he."
Presently she came to the top of a hill, down the side of which there was a road so narrow that the cart wheels always chafed the trees on each side as they passed.
"Ah, see now," said she, "how they have bruised and wounded those poor trees; they will never get well."
So she took pity on them, and made use of the butter to grease them all, so that the wheels might not hurt them so much.
While she was doing this kind office one of her cheeses fell out of the basket, and rolled down the hill.
Catherine looked, but could not see where it had gone; so she said, "Well, I suppose the other will go the same way and find you; he has younger legs than I have."
Then she rolled the other cheese after it; and away it went, nobody knows where, down the hill.
But she said she supposed that they knew the road, and would follow her, and she could not stay there all day waiting for them.
At last she overtook Frederick, who desired her to give him something to eat.
Then she gave him the dry bread.
"Where are the butter and cheese?" said he.
"Oh!" answered she, "I used the butter to grease those poor trees that the wheels chafed so: and one of the cheeses ran away so I sent the other after it to find it, and I suppose they are both on the road together somewhere."
"What a goose you are to do such silly things!" said the husband.
"How can you say so?" said she; "I am sure you never told me not."
They ate the dry bread together; and Frederick said, "Kate, I hope you locked the door safe when you came away."
"No," answered she, "you did not tell me."
"Then go home, and do it now before we go any farther," said Frederick, "and bring with you something to eat."
Catherine did as he told her, and thought to herself by the way, "Frederick wants something to eat; but I don"t think he is very fond of butter and cheese: I"ll bring him a bag of fine nuts, and the vinegar, for I have often seen him take some."
When she reached home, she bolted the back door, but the front door she took off the hinges, and said, "Frederick told me to lock the door, but surely it can nowhere be so safe if I take it with me."
So she took her time by the way; and when she overtook her husband she cried out, "There, Frederick, there is the door itself, you may watch it as carefully as you please."
"Alas! alas!" said he, "what a clever wife I have!
I sent you to make the house fast, and you take the door away, so that everybody may go in and out as they please--however, as you have brought the door, you shall carry it about with you for your pains."
"Very well," answered she, "I"ll carry the door; but I"ll not carry the nuts and vinegar bottle also--that would be too much of a load; so if you please, I"ll fasten them to the door."
Frederick of course made no objection to that plan, and they set off into the wood to look for the thieves; but they could not find them: and when it grew dark, they climbed up into a tree to spend the night there.
Scarcely were they up, than who should come by but the very rogues they were looking for.
They were in truth great rascals, and belonged to that class of people who find things before they are lost; they were tired; so they sat down and made a fire under the very tree where Frederick and Catherine were.
Frederick slipped down on the other side, and picked up some stones.
Then he climbed up again, and tried to hit the thieves on the head with them: but they only said, "It must be near morning, for the wind shakes the fir-apples down."
Catherine, who had the door on her shoulder, began to be very tired; but she thought it was the nuts upon it that were so heavy: so she said softly, "Frederick, I must let the nuts go."
"No," answered he, "not now, they will discover us."
"I can"t help that: they must go."
"Well, then, make haste and throw them down, if you will."
Then away rattled the nuts down among the boughs and one of the thieves cried, "Bless me, it is hailing."
A little while after, Catherine thought the door was still very heavy: so she whispered to Frederick, "I must throw the vinegar down."
"Pray don"t," answered he, "it will discover us."
"I can"t help that," said she, "go it must."
So she poured all the vinegar down; and the thieves said, "What a heavy dew there is!"
At last it popped into Catherine"s head that it was the door itself that was so heavy all the time: so she whispered, "Frederick, I must throw the door down soon."
But he begged and prayed her not to do so, for he was sure it would betray them.
"Here goes, however," said she: and down went the door with such a clatter upon the thieves, that they cried out "Murder!" and not knowing what was coming, ran away as fast as they could, and left all the gold.
So when Frederick and Catherine came down, there they found all their money safe and sound.
There was once a forester who went into the forest to hunt, and as he entered it he heard a sound of screaming as if a little child were there.
He followed the sound, and at last came to a high tree, and at the top of this a little child was sitting, for the mother had fallen asleep under the tree with the child, and a bird of prey had seen it in her arms, had flown down, snatched it away, and set it on the high tree.
The forester climbed up, brought the child down, and thought to himself: "You will take him home with you, and bring him up with your Lina."
He took it home, therefore, and the two children grew up together.
And the one, which he had found on a tree was called Fundevogel, because a bird had carried it away.
Fundevogel and Lina loved each other so dearly that when they did not see each other they were sad.
Now the forester had an old cook, who one evening took two pails and began to fetch water, and did not go once only, but many times, out to the spring.
Lina saw this and said, "Listen, old Sanna, why are you fetching so much water?"
"If you will never repeat it to anyone, I will tell you why."
So Lina said, no, she would never repeat it to anyone, and then the cook said: "Early tomorrow morning, when the forester is out hunting, I will heat the water, and when it is boiling in the kettle, I will throw in Fundevogel, and will boil him in it."
Early next morning the forester got up and went out hunting, and when he was gone the children were still in bed.
Then Lina said to Fundevogel: "If you will never leave me, I too will never leave you."
Fundevogel said: "Neither now, nor ever will I leave you."
Then said Lina: "Then will I tell you.
Last night, old Sanna carried so many buckets of water into the house that I asked her why she was doing that, and she said that if I would promise not to tell anyone, and she said that early tomorrow morning when father was out hunting, she would set the kettle full of water, throw you into it and boil you; but we will get up quickly, dress ourselves, and go away together."
The two children therefore got up, dressed themselves quickly, and went away.
When the water in the kettle was boiling, the cook went into the bedroom to fetch Fundevogel and throw him into it.
But when she came in, and went to the beds, both the children were gone.
Then she was terribly alarmed, and she said to herself: "What shall I say now when the forester comes home and sees that the children are gone?
They must be followed instantly to get them back again."
Then the cook sent three servants after them, who were to run and overtake the children.
The children, however, were sitting outside the forest, and when they saw from afar the three servants running, Lina said to Fundevogel: "Never leave me, and I will never leave you."
Fundevogel said: "Neither now, nor ever."
Then said Lina: "Do you become a rose-tree, and I the rose upon it."
When the three servants came to the forest, nothing was there but a rose-tree and one rose on it, but the children were nowhere.
Then said they: "There is nothing to be done here," and they went home and told the cook that they had seen nothing in the forest but a little rose-bush with one rose on it.
Then the old cook scolded and said: "You simpletons, you should have cut the rose-bush in two, and have broken off the rose and brought it home with you; go, and do it at once."
They had therefore to go out and look for the second time.
The children, however, saw them coming from a distance.
Then Lina said: "Fundevogel, never leave me, and I will never leave you."
Fundevogel said: "Neither now; nor ever."
Said Lina: "Then do you become a church, and I"ll be the chandelier in it."
So when the three servants came, nothing was there but a church, with a chandelier in it.
They said therefore to each other: "What can we do here, let us go home."
When they got home, the cook asked if they had not found them; so they said no, they had found nothing but a church, and there was a chandelier in it.
And the cook scolded them and said: "You fools! why did you not pull the church to pieces, and bring the chandelier home with you?"
And now the old cook herself got on her legs, and went with the three servants in pursuit of the children.
The children, however, saw from afar that the three servants were coming, and the cook waddling after them.
Then said Lina: "Fundevogel, never leave me, and I will never leave you."
Then said Fundevogel: "Neither now, nor ever."
Said Lina: "Be a fishpond, and I will be the duck upon it."
The cook, however, came up to them, and when she saw the pond she lay down by it, and was about to drink it up.
But the duck swam quickly to her, seized her head in its beak and drew her into the water, and there the old witch had to drown.
Then the children went home together, and were heartily delighted, and if they have not died, they are living still.
Some men are born to good luck: all they do or try to do comes right-- all that falls to them is so much gain--all their geese are swans--all their cards are trumps--toss them which way you will, they will always, like poor puss, alight upon their legs, and only move on so much the faster.
The world may very likely not always think of them as they think of themselves, but what care they for the world? what can it know about the matter?
One of these lucky beings was neighbour Hans.
Seven long years he had worked hard for his master.
At last he said, "Master, my time is up; I must go home and see my poor mother once more: so pray pay me my wages and let me go."
And the master said, "You have been a faithful and good servant, Hans, so your pay shall be handsome."
Then he gave him a lump of silver as big as his head.
Hans took out his pocket-handkerchief, put the piece of silver into it, threw it over his shoulder, and jogged off on his road homewards.
As he went lazily on, dragging one foot after another, a man came in sight, trotting gaily along on a capital horse.
"Ah!" said Hans aloud, "what a fine thing it is to ride on horseback!
There he sits as easy and happy as if he was at home, in the chair by his fireside; he trips against no stones, saves shoe-leather, and gets on he hardly knows how."
Hans did not speak so softly but the horseman heard it all, and said, "Well, friend, why do you go on foot then?"
"Ah!" said he, "I have this load to carry: to be sure it is silver, but it is so heavy that I can"t hold up my head, and you must know it hurts my shoulder sadly."
"What do you say of making an exchange?" said the horseman.
"I will give you my horse, and you shall give me the silver; which will save you a great deal of trouble in carrying such a heavy load about with you."
"With all my heart," said Hans: "but as you are so kind to me, I must tell you one thing--you will have a weary task to draw that silver about with you."
However, the horseman got off, took the silver, helped Hans up, gave him the bridle into one hand and the whip into the other, and said, "When you want to go very fast, smack your lips loudly together, and cry "Jip!""
Hans was delighted as he sat on the horse, drew himself up, squared his elbows, turned out his toes, cracked his whip, and rode merrily off, one minute whistling a merry tune, and another singing,
"No care and no sorrow, A fig for the morrow!
We"ll laugh and be merry, Sing neigh down derry!"
After a time he thought he should like to go a little faster, so he smacked his lips and cried "Jip!"
Away went the horse full gallop; and before Hans knew what he was about, he was thrown off, and lay on his back by the road-side.
His horse would have ran off, if a shepherd who was coming by, driving a cow, had not stopped it.
Hans soon came to himself, and got upon his legs again, sadly vexed, and said to the shepherd, "This riding is no joke, when a man has the luck to get upon a beast like this that stumbles and flings him off as if it would break his neck.
However, I"m off now once for all: I like your cow now a great deal better than this smart beast that played me this trick, and has spoiled my best coat, you see, in this puddle; which, by the by, smells not very like a nosegay.
One can walk along at one"s leisure behind that cow--keep good company, and have milk, butter, and cheese, every day, into the bargain.
What would I give to have such a prize!"
"Well," said the shepherd, "if you are so fond of her, I will change my cow for your horse; I like to do good to my neighbours, even though I lose by it myself."
"Done!" said Hans, merrily.
"What a noble heart that good man has!" thought he.
Then the shepherd jumped upon the horse, wished Hans and the cow good morning, and away he rode.
Hans brushed his coat, wiped his face and hands, rested a while, and then drove off his cow quietly, and thought his bargain a very lucky one.
"If I have only a piece of bread (and I certainly shall always be able to get that), I can, whenever I like, eat my butter and cheese with it; and when I am thirsty I can milk my cow and drink the milk: and what can I wish for more?"
When he came to an inn, he halted, ate up all his bread, and gave away his last penny for a glass of beer.
When he had rested himself he set off again, driving his cow towards his mother"s village.
But the heat grew greater as soon as noon came on, till at last, as he found himself on a wide heath that would take him more than an hour to cross, he began to be so hot and parched that his tongue clave to the roof of his mouth.
"I can find a cure for this," thought he; "now I will milk my cow and quench my thirst": so he tied her to the stump of a tree, and held his leathern cap to milk into; but not a drop was to be had.
Who would have thought that this cow, which was to bring him milk and butter and cheese, was all that time utterly dry?
Hans had not thought of looking to that.
While he was trying his luck in milking, and managing the matter very clumsily, the uneasy beast began to think him very troublesome; and at last gave him such a kick on the head as knocked him down; and there he lay a long while senseless.
Luckily a butcher soon came by, driving a pig in a wheelbarrow.
"What is the matter with you, my man?" said the butcher, as he helped him up.
Hans told him what had happened, how he was dry, and wanted to milk his cow, but found the cow was dry too.
Then the butcher gave him a flask of ale, saying, "There, drink and refresh yourself; your cow will give you no milk: don"t you see she is an old beast, good for nothing but the slaughter-house?"
"Alas, alas!" said Hans, "who would have thought it?
What a shame to take my horse, and give me only a dry cow!
If I kill her, what will she be good for?
I hate cow-beef; it is not tender enough for me.
If it were a pig now --like that fat gentleman you are driving along at his ease--one could do something with it; it would at any rate make sausages."
"Well," said the butcher, "I don"t like to say no, when one is asked to do a kind, neighbourly thing.
To please you I will change, and give you my fine fat pig for the cow."
"Heaven reward you for your kindness and self-denial!" said Hans, as he gave the butcher the cow; and taking the pig off the wheel-barrow, drove it away, holding it by the string that was tied to its leg.
So on he jogged, and all seemed now to go right with him: he had met with some misfortunes, to be sure; but he was now well repaid for all.
How could it be otherwise with such a travelling companion as he had at last got?
The next man he met was a countryman carrying a fine white goose.
The countryman stopped to ask what was o"clock; this led to further chat; and Hans told him all his luck, how he had so many good bargains, and how all the world went gay and smiling with him.
The countryman than began to tell his tale, and said he was going to take the goose to a christening.
"Feel," said he, "how heavy it is, and yet it is only eight weeks old.
Whoever roasts and eats it will find plenty of fat upon it, it has lived so well!"
"You"re right," said Hans, as he weighed it in his hand; "but if you talk of fat, my pig is no trifle."
Meantime the countryman began to look grave, and shook his head.
"Hark ye!" said he, "my worthy friend, you seem a good sort of fellow, so I can"t help doing you a kind turn.
Your pig may get you into a scrape.
In the village I just came from, the squire has had a pig stolen out of his sty.
I was dreadfully afraid when I saw you that you had got the squire"s pig.
If you have, and they catch you, it will be a bad job for you.
The least they will do will be to throw you into the horse-pond.
Can you swim?"
Poor Hans was sadly frightened.
"Good man," cried he, "pray get me out of this scrape.
I know nothing of where the pig was either bred or born; but he may have been the squire"s for aught I can tell: you know this country better than I do, take my pig and give me the goose."
"I ought to have something into the bargain," said the countryman; "give a fat goose for a pig, indeed!
"Tis not everyone would do so much for you as that.
However, I will not be hard upon you, as you are in trouble."
Then he took the string in his hand, and drove off the pig by a side path; while Hans went on the way homewards free from care.
"After all," thought he, "that chap is pretty well taken in.
I don"t care whose pig it is, but wherever it came from it has been a very good friend to me.
I have much the best of the bargain.
First there will be a capital roast; then the fat will find me in goose-grease for six months; and then there are all the beautiful white feathers.
I will put them into my pillow, and then I am sure I shall sleep soundly without rocking.
How happy my mother will be!
Talk of a pig, indeed!
Give me a fine fat goose."
As he came to the next village, he saw a scissor-grinder with his wheel, working and singing,
"O"er hill and o"er dale So happy I roam, Work light and live well, All the world is my home; Then who so blythe, so merry as I?"
Hans stood looking on for a while, and at last said, "You must be well off, master grinder! you seem so happy at your work."
"Yes," said the other, "mine is a golden trade; a good grinder never puts his hand into his pocket without finding money in it--but where did you get that beautiful goose?"
"I did not buy it, I gave a pig for it."
"And where did you get the pig?"
"I gave a cow for it."
"And the cow?"
"I gave a horse for it."
"And the horse?"
"I gave a lump of silver as big as my head for it."
"And the silver?"
"Oh!
I worked hard for that seven long years."
"You have thriven well in the world hitherto," said the grinder, "now if you could find money in your pocket whenever you put your hand in it, your fortune would be made."
"Very true: but how is that to be managed?"
"How?
Why, you must turn grinder like myself," said the other; "you only want a grindstone; the rest will come of itself.
Here is one that is but little the worse for wear: I would not ask more than the value of your goose for it--will you buy?"
"How can you ask?" said Hans; "I should be the happiest man in the world, if I could have money whenever I put my hand in my pocket: what could I want more? there"s the goose."
"Now," said the grinder, as he gave him a common rough stone that lay by his side, "this is a most capital stone; do but work it well enough, and you can make an old nail cut with it."
Hans took the stone, and went his way with a light heart: his eyes sparkled for joy, and he said to himself, "Surely I must have been born in a lucky hour; everything I could want or wish for comes of itself.
People are so kind; they seem really to think I do them a favour in letting them make me rich, and giving me good bargains."
Meantime he began to be tired, and hungry too, for he had given away his last penny in his joy at getting the cow.
At last he could go no farther, for the stone tired him sadly: and he dragged himself to the side of a river, that he might take a drink of water, and rest a while.
So he laid the stone carefully by his side on the bank: but, as he stooped down to drink, he forgot it, pushed it a little, and down it rolled, plump into the stream.
For a while he watched it sinking in the deep clear water; then sprang up and danced for joy, and again fell upon his knees and thanked Heaven, with tears in his eyes, for its kindness in taking away his only plague, the ugly heavy stone.
"How happy am I!" cried he; "nobody was ever so lucky as I."
Then up he got with a light heart, free from all his troubles, and walked on till he reached his mother"s house, and told her how very easy the road to good luck was.
Hard by a great forest dwelt a poor wood-cutter with his wife and his two children.
The boy was called Hansel and the girl Gretel.
He had little to bite and to break, and once when great dearth fell on the land, he could no longer procure even daily bread.
Now when he thought over this by night in his bed, and tossed about in his anxiety, he groaned and said to his wife: "What is to become of us?
How are we to feed our poor children, when we no longer have anything even for ourselves?"
"I"ll tell you what, husband," answered the woman, "early tomorrow morning we will take the children out into the forest to where it is the thickest; there we will light a fire for them, and give each of them one more piece of bread, and then we will go to our work and leave them alone.
They will not find the way home again, and we shall be rid of them."
"No, wife," said the man, "I will not do that; how can I bear to leave my children alone in the forest?--the wild animals would soon come and tear them to pieces."
"O, you fool!" said she, "then we must all four die of hunger, you may as well plane the planks for our coffins," and she left him no peace until he consented.
"But I feel very sorry for the poor children, all the same," said the man.
The two children had also not been able to sleep for hunger, and had heard what their stepmother had said to their father.
Gretel wept bitter tears, and said to Hansel: "Now all is over with us."
"Be quiet, Gretel," said Hansel, "do not distress yourself, I will soon find a way to help us."
And when the old folks had fallen asleep, he got up, put on his little coat, opened the door below, and crept outside.
The moon shone brightly, and the white pebbles which lay in front of the house glittered like real silver pennies.
Hansel stooped and stuffed the little pocket of his coat with as many as he could get in.
Then he went back and said to Gretel: "Be comforted, dear little sister, and sleep in peace, God will not forsake us," and he lay down again in his bed.
When day dawned, but before the sun had risen, the woman came and awoke the two children, saying: "Get up, you sluggards! we are going into the forest to fetch wood."
She gave each a little piece of bread, and said: "There is something for your dinner, but do not eat it up before then, for you will get nothing else."
Gretel took the bread under her apron, as Hansel had the pebbles in his pocket.
Then they all set out together on the way to the forest.
When they had walked a short time, Hansel stood still and peeped back at the house, and did so again and again.
His father said: "Hansel, what are you looking at there and staying behind for?
Pay attention, and do not forget how to use your legs."
"Ah, father," said Hansel, "I am looking at my little white cat, which is sitting up on the roof, and wants to say goodbye to me."
The wife said: "Fool, that is not your little cat, that is the morning sun which is shining on the chimneys."
Hansel, however, had not been looking back at the cat, but had been constantly throwing one of the white pebble-stones out of his pocket on the road.
When they had reached the middle of the forest, the father said: "Now, children, pile up some wood, and I will light a fire that you may not be cold."
Hansel and Gretel gathered brushwood together, as high as a little hill.
The brushwood was lighted, and when the flames were burning very high, the woman said: "Now, children, lay yourselves down by the fire and rest, we will go into the forest and cut some wood.
When we have done, we will come back and fetch you away."
Hansel and Gretel sat by the fire, and when noon came, each ate a little piece of bread, and as they heard the strokes of the wood-axe they believed that their father was near.
It was not the axe, however, but a branch which he had fastened to a withered tree which the wind was blowing backwards and forwards.
And as they had been sitting such a long time, their eyes closed with fatigue, and they fell fast asleep.
When at last they awoke, it was already dark night.
Gretel began to cry and said: "How are we to get out of the forest now?"
But Hansel comforted her and said: "Just wait a little, until the moon has risen, and then we will soon find the way."
And when the full moon had risen, Hansel took his little sister by the hand, and followed the pebbles which shone like newly-coined silver pieces, and showed them the way.
They walked the whole night long, and by break of day came once more to their father"s house.
They knocked at the door, and when the woman opened it and saw that it was Hansel and Gretel, she said: "You naughty children, why have you slept so long in the forest?--we thought you were never coming back at all!"
The father, however, rejoiced, for it had cut him to the heart to leave them behind alone.
Not long afterwards, there was once more great dearth throughout the land, and the children heard their mother saying at night to their father: "Everything is eaten again, we have one half loaf left, and that is the end.
The children must go, we will take them farther into the wood, so that they will not find their way out again; there is no other means of saving ourselves!"
The man"s heart was heavy, and he thought: "It would be better for you to share the last mouthful with your children."
The woman, however, would listen to nothing that he had to say, but scolded and reproached him.
He who says A must say B, likewise, and as he had yielded the first time, he had to do so a second time also.
The children, however, were still awake and had heard the conversation.
When the old folks were asleep, Hansel again got up, and wanted to go out and pick up pebbles as he had done before, but the woman had locked the door, and Hansel could not get out.
Nevertheless he comforted his little sister, and said: "Do not cry, Gretel, go to sleep quietly, the good God will help us."
Early in the morning came the woman, and took the children out of their beds.
Their piece of bread was given to them, but it was still smaller than the time before.
On the way into the forest Hansel crumbled his in his pocket, and often stood still and threw a morsel on the ground.
"Hansel, why do you stop and look round?" said the father, "go on."
"I am looking back at my little pigeon which is sitting on the roof, and wants to say goodbye to me," answered Hansel.
"Fool!" said the woman, "that is not your little pigeon, that is the morning sun that is shining on the chimney."
Hansel, however little by little, threw all the crumbs on the path.
The woman led the children still deeper into the forest, where they had never in their lives been before.
Then a great fire was again made, and the mother said: "Just sit there, you children, and when you are tired you may sleep a little; we are going into the forest to cut wood, and in the evening when we are done, we will come and fetch you away."
When it was noon, Gretel shared her piece of bread with Hansel, who had scattered his by the way.
Then they fell asleep and evening passed, but no one came to the poor children.
They did not awake until it was dark night, and Hansel comforted his little sister and said: "Just wait, Gretel, until the moon rises, and then we shall see the crumbs of bread which I have strewn about, they will show us our way home again."
When the moon came they set out, but they found no crumbs, for the many thousands of birds which fly about in the woods and fields had picked them all up.
Hansel said to Gretel: "We shall soon find the way," but they did not find it.
They walked the whole night and all the next day too from morning till evening, but they did not get out of the forest, and were very hungry, for they had nothing to eat but two or three berries, which grew on the ground.
And as they were so weary that their legs would carry them no longer, they lay down beneath a tree and fell asleep.
It was now three mornings since they had left their father"s house.
They began to walk again, but they always came deeper into the forest, and if help did not come soon, they must die of hunger and weariness.
When it was mid-day, they saw a beautiful snow-white bird sitting on a bough, which sang so delightfully that they stood still and listened to it.
And when its song was over, it spread its wings and flew away before them, and they followed it until they reached a little house, on the roof of which it alighted; and when they approached the little house they saw that it was built of bread and covered with cakes, but that the windows were of clear sugar.
"We will set to work on that," said Hansel, "and have a good meal.
I will eat a bit of the roof, and you Gretel, can eat some of the window, it will taste sweet."
Hansel reached up above, and broke off a little of the roof to try how it tasted, and Gretel leant against the window and nibbled at the panes.
Then a soft voice cried from the parlour:
"Nibble, nibble, gnaw, Who is nibbling at my little house?"
The children answered:
"The wind, the wind, The heaven-born wind,"
and went on eating without disturbing themselves.
Hansel, who liked the taste of the roof, tore down a great piece of it, and Gretel pushed out the whole of one round window-pane, sat down, and enjoyed herself with it.
Suddenly the door opened, and a woman as old as the hills, who supported herself on crutches, came creeping out.
Hansel and Gretel were so terribly frightened that they let fall what they had in their hands.
The old woman, however, nodded her head, and said: "Oh, you dear children, who has brought you here? do come in, and stay with me.
No harm shall happen to you."
She took them both by the hand, and led them into her little house.
Then good food was set before them, milk and pancakes, with sugar, apples, and nuts.
Afterwards two pretty little beds were covered with clean white linen, and Hansel and Gretel lay down in them, and thought they were in heaven.
The old woman had only pretended to be so kind; she was in reality a wicked witch, who lay in wait for children, and had only built the little house of bread in order to entice them there.
When a child fell into her power, she killed it, cooked and ate it, and that was a feast day with her.
Witches have red eyes, and cannot see far, but they have a keen scent like the beasts, and are aware when human beings draw near.
When Hansel and Gretel came into her neighbourhood, she laughed with malice, and said mockingly: "I have them, they shall not escape me again!"
Early in the morning before the children were awake, she was already up, and when she saw both of them sleeping and looking so pretty, with their plump and rosy cheeks she muttered to herself: "That will be a dainty mouthful!"
Then she seized Hansel with her shrivelled hand, carried him into a little stable, and locked him in behind a grated door.
Scream as he might, it would not help him.
Then she went to Gretel, shook her till she awoke, and cried: "Get up, lazy thing, fetch some water, and cook something good for your brother, he is in the stable outside, and is to be made fat.
When he is fat, I will eat him."
Gretel began to weep bitterly, but it was all in vain, for she was forced to do what the wicked witch commanded.
And now the best food was cooked for poor Hansel, but Gretel got nothing but crab-shells.
Every morning the woman crept to the little stable, and cried: "Hansel, stretch out your finger that I may feel if you will soon be fat."
Hansel, however, stretched out a little bone to her, and the old woman, who had dim eyes, could not see it, and thought it was Hansel"s finger, and was astonished that there was no way of fattening him.
When four weeks had gone by, and Hansel still remained thin, she was seized with impatience and would not wait any longer.
"Now, then, Gretel," she cried to the girl, "stir yourself, and bring some water.
Let Hansel be fat or lean, tomorrow I will kill him, and cook him."
Ah, how the poor little sister did lament when she had to fetch the water, and how her tears did flow down her cheeks!
"Dear God, do help us," she cried.
"If the wild beasts in the forest had but devoured us, we should at any rate have died together."
"Just keep your noise to yourself," said the old woman, "it won"t help you at all."
Early in the morning, Gretel had to go out and hang up the cauldron with the water, and light the fire.
"We will bake first," said the old woman, "I have already heated the oven, and kneaded the dough."
She pushed poor Gretel out to the oven, from which flames of fire were already darting.
"Creep in," said the witch, "and see if it is properly heated, so that we can put the bread in."
And once Gretel was inside, she intended to shut the oven and let her bake in it, and then she would eat her, too.
But Gretel saw what she had in mind, and said: "I do not know how I am to do it; how do I get in?"
"Silly goose," said the old woman.
"The door is big enough; just look, I can get in myself!" and she crept up and thrust her head into the oven.
Then Gretel gave her a push that drove her far into it, and shut the iron door, and fastened the bolt.
Oh! then she began to howl quite horribly, but Gretel ran away and the godless witch was miserably burnt to death.
Gretel, however, ran like lightning to Hansel, opened his little stable, and cried: "Hansel, we are saved!
The old witch is dead!"
Then Hansel sprang like a bird from its cage when the door is opened.
How they did rejoice and embrace each other, and dance about and kiss each other!
And as they had no longer any need to fear her, they went into the witch"s house, and in every corner there stood chests full of pearls and jewels.
"These are far better than pebbles!" said Hansel, and thrust into his pockets whatever could be got in, and Gretel said: "I, too, will take something home with me," and filled her pinafore full.
"But now we must be off," said Hansel, "that we may get out of the witch"s forest."
When they had walked for two hours, they came to a great stretch of water.
"We cannot cross," said Hansel, "I see no foot-plank, and no bridge."
"And there is also no ferry," answered Gretel, "but a white duck is swimming there: if I ask her, she will help us over."
Then she cried:
"Little duck, little duck, dost thou see, Hansel and Gretel are waiting for thee?
There"s never a plank, or bridge in sight, Take us across on thy back so white."
The duck came to them, and Hansel seated himself on its back, and told his sister to sit by him.
"No," replied Gretel, "that will be too heavy for the little duck; she shall take us across, one after the other."
The good little duck did so, and when they were once safely across and had walked for a short time, the forest seemed to be more and more familiar to them, and at length they saw from afar their father"s house.
Then they began to run, rushed into the parlour, and threw themselves round their father"s neck.
The man had not known one happy hour since he had left the children in the forest; the woman, however, was dead.
Gretel emptied her pinafore until pearls and precious stones ran about the room, and Hansel threw one handful after another out of his pocket to add to them.
Then all anxiety was at an end, and they lived together in perfect happiness.
My tale is done, there runs a mouse; whosoever catches it, may make himself a big fur cap out of it.
There was once upon a time a king who had a great forest near his palace, full of all kinds of wild animals.
One day he sent out a huntsman to shoot him a roe, but he did not come back.
"Perhaps some accident has befallen him," said the king, and the next day he sent out two more huntsmen who were to search for him, but they too stayed away.
Then on the third day, he sent for all his huntsmen, and said: "Scour the whole forest through, and do not give up until you have found all three."
But of these also, none came home again, none were seen again.
From that time forth, no one would any longer venture into the forest, and it lay there in deep stillness and solitude, and nothing was seen of it, but sometimes an eagle or a hawk flying over it.
This lasted for many years, when an unknown huntsman announced himself to the king as seeking a situation, and offered to go into the dangerous forest.
The king, however, would not give his consent, and said: "It is not safe in there; I fear it would fare with you no better than with the others, and you would never come out again."
The huntsman replied: "Lord, I will venture it at my own risk, of fear I know nothing."
The huntsman therefore betook himself with his dog to the forest.
It was not long before the dog fell in with some game on the way, and wanted to pursue it; but hardly had the dog run two steps when it stood before a deep pool, could go no farther, and a naked arm stretched itself out of the water, seized it, and drew it under.
When the huntsman saw that, he went back and fetched three men to come with buckets and bale out the water.
When they could see to the bottom there lay a wild man whose body was brown like rusty iron, and whose hair hung over his face down to his knees.
They bound him with cords, and led him away to the castle.
There was great astonishment over the wild man; the king, however, had him put in an iron cage in his courtyard, and forbade the door to be opened on pain of death, and the queen herself was to take the key into her keeping.
And from this time forth everyone could again go into the forest with safety.
The king had a son of eight years, who was once playing in the courtyard, and while he was playing, his golden ball fell into the cage.
The boy ran thither and said: "Give me my ball out."
"Not till you have opened the door for me," answered the man.
"No," said the boy, "I will not do that; the king has forbidden it," and ran away.
The next day he again went and asked for his ball; the wild man said: "Open my door," but the boy would not.
On the third day the king had ridden out hunting, and the boy went once more and said: "I cannot open the door even if I wished, for I have not the key."
Then the wild man said: "It lies under your mother"s pillow, you can get it there."
The boy, who wanted to have his ball back, cast all thought to the winds, and brought the key.
The door opened with difficulty, and the boy pinched his fingers.
When it was open the wild man stepped out, gave him the golden ball, and hurried away.
The boy had become afraid; he called and cried after him: "Oh, wild man, do not go away, or I shall be beaten!"
The wild man turned back, took him up, set him on his shoulder, and went with hasty steps into the forest.
When the king came home, he observed the empty cage, and asked the queen how that had happened.
She knew nothing about it, and sought the key, but it was gone.
She called the boy, but no one answered.
The king sent out people to seek for him in the fields, but they did not find him.
Then he could easily guess what had happened, and much grief reigned in the royal court.
When the wild man had once more reached the dark forest, he took the boy down from his shoulder, and said to him: "You will never see your father and mother again, but I will keep you with me, for you have set me free, and I have compassion on you.
If you do all I bid you, you shall fare well.
Of treasure and gold have I enough, and more than anyone in the world."
He made a bed of moss for the boy on which he slept, and the next morning the man took him to a well, and said: "Behold, the gold well is as bright and clear as crystal, you shall sit beside it, and take care that nothing falls into it, or it will be polluted.
I will come every evening to see if you have obeyed my order."
The boy placed himself by the brink of the well, and often saw a golden fish or a golden snake show itself therein, and took care that nothing fell in.
As he was thus sitting, his finger hurt him so violently that he involuntarily put it in the water.
He drew it quickly out again, but saw that it was quite gilded, and whatsoever pains he took to wash the gold off again, all was to no purpose.
In the evening Iron Hans came back, looked at the boy, and said: "What has happened to the well?"
"Nothing nothing," he answered, and held his finger behind his back, that the man might not see it.
But he said: "You have dipped your finger into the water, this time it may pass, but take care you do not again let anything go in."
By daybreak the boy was already sitting by the well and watching it.
His finger hurt him again and he passed it over his head, and then unhappily a hair fell down into the well.
He took it quickly out, but it was already quite gilded.
Iron Hans came, and already knew what had happened.
"You have let a hair fall into the well," said he.
"I will allow you to watch by it once more, but if this happens for the third time then the well is polluted and you can no longer remain with me."
On the third day, the boy sat by the well, and did not stir his finger, however much it hurt him.
But the time was long to him, and he looked at the reflection of his face on the surface of the water.
And as he still bent down more and more while he was doing so, and trying to look straight into the eyes, his long hair fell down from his shoulders into the water.
He raised himself up quickly, but the whole of the hair of his head was already golden and shone like the sun.
You can imagine how terrified the poor boy was!
He took his pockethandkerchief and tied it round his head, in order that the man might not see it.
When he came he already knew everything, and said: "Take the handkerchief off."
Then the golden hair streamed forth, and let the boy excuse himself as he might, it was of no use.
"You have not stood the trial and can stay here no longer.
Go forth into the world, there you will learn what poverty is.
But as you have not a bad heart, and as I mean well by you, there is one thing I will grant you; if you fall into any difficulty, come to the forest and cry: "Iron Hans," and then I will come and help you.
My power is great, greater than you think, and I have gold and silver in abundance."
Then the king"s son left the forest, and walked by beaten and unbeaten paths ever onwards until at length he reached a great city.
There he looked for work, but could find none, and he learnt nothing by which he could help himself.
At length he went to the palace, and asked if they would take him in.
The people about court did not at all know what use they could make of him, but they liked him, and told him to stay.
At length the cook took him into his service, and said he might carry wood and water, and rake the cinders together.
Once when it so happened that no one else was at hand, the cook ordered him to carry the food to the royal table, but as he did not like to let his golden hair be seen, he kept his little cap on.
Such a thing as that had never yet come under the king"s notice, and he said: "When you come to the royal table you must take your hat off."
He answered: "Ah, Lord, I cannot; I have a bad sore place on my head."
Then the king had the cook called before him and scolded him, and asked how he could take such a boy as that into his service; and that he was to send him away at once.
The cook, however, had pity on him, and exchanged him for the gardener"s boy.
And now the boy had to plant and water the garden, hoe and dig, and bear the wind and bad weather.
Once in summer when he was working alone in the garden, the day was so warm he took his little cap off that the air might cool him.
As the sun shone on his hair it glittered and flashed so that the rays fell into the bedroom of the king"s daughter, and up she sprang to see what that could be.
Then she saw the boy, and cried to him: "Boy, bring me a wreath of flowers."
He put his cap on with all haste, and gathered wild field-flowers and bound them together.
When he was ascending the stairs with them, the gardener met him, and said: "How can you take the king"s daughter a garland of such common flowers?
Go quickly, and get another, and seek out the prettiest and rarest."
"Oh, no," replied the boy, "the wild ones have more scent, and will please her better."
When he got into the room, the king"s daughter said: "Take your cap off, it is not seemly to keep it on in my presence."
He again said: "I may not, I have a sore head."
She, however, caught at his cap and pulled it off, and then his golden hair rolled down on his shoulders, and it was splendid to behold.
He wanted to run out, but she held him by the arm, and gave him a handful of ducats.
With these he departed, but he cared nothing for the gold pieces.
He took them to the gardener, and said: "I present them to your children, they can play with them."
The following day the king"s daughter again called to him that he was to bring her a wreath of field-flowers, and then he went in with it, she instantly snatched at his cap, and wanted to take it away from him, but he held it fast with both hands.
She again gave him a handful of ducats, but he would not keep them, and gave them to the gardener for playthings for his children.
On the third day things went just the same; she could not get his cap away from him, and he would not have her money.
Not long afterwards, the country was overrun by war.
The king gathered together his people, and did not know whether or not he could offer any opposition to the enemy, who was superior in strength and had a mighty army.
Then said the gardener"s boy: "I am grown up, and will go to the wars also, only give me a horse."
The others laughed, and said: "Seek one for yourself when we are gone, we will leave one behind us in the stable for you."
When they had gone forth, he went into the stable, and led the horse out; it was lame of one foot, and limped hobblety jib, hobblety jib; nevertheless he mounted it, and rode away to the dark forest.
When he came to the outskirts, he called "Iron Hans" three times so loudly that it echoed through the trees.
Thereupon the wild man appeared immediately, and said: "What do you desire?"
"I want a strong steed, for I am going to the wars."
"That you shall have, and still more than you ask for."
Then the wild man went back into the forest, and it was not long before a stable-boy came out of it, who led a horse that snorted with its nostrils, and could hardly be restrained, and behind them followed a great troop of warriors entirely equipped in iron, and their swords flashed in the sun.
The youth made over his three-legged horse to the stable-boy, mounted the other, and rode at the head of the soldiers.
When he got near the battlefield a great part of the king"s men had already fallen, and little was wanting to make the rest give way.
Then the youth galloped thither with his iron soldiers, broke like a hurricane over the enemy, and beat down all who opposed him.
They began to flee, but the youth pursued, and never stopped, until there was not a single man left.
Instead of returning to the king, however, he conducted his troop by byways back to the forest, and called forth Iron Hans.
"What do you desire?" asked the wild man.
"Take back your horse and your troops, and give me my three-legged horse again."
All that he asked was done, and soon he was riding on his three-legged horse.
When the king returned to his palace, his daughter went to meet him, and wished him joy of his victory.
"I am not the one who carried away the victory," said he, "but a strange knight who came to my assistance with his soldiers."
The daughter wanted to hear who the strange knight was, but the king did not know, and said: "He followed the enemy, and I did not see him again."
She inquired of the gardener where his boy was, but he smiled, and said: "He has just come home on his threelegged horse, and the others have been mocking him, and crying: "Here comes our hobblety jib back again!"
They asked, too: "Under what hedge have you been lying sleeping all the time?"
So he said: "I did the best of all, and it would have gone badly without me."
And then he was still more ridiculed."
The king said to his daughter: "I will proclaim a great feast that shall last for three days, and you shall throw a golden apple.
Perhaps the unknown man will show himself."
When the feast was announced, the youth went out to the forest, and called Iron Hans.
"What do you desire?" asked he.
"That I may catch the king"s daughter"s golden apple."
"It is as safe as if you had it already," said Iron Hans.
"You shall likewise have a suit of red armour for the occasion, and ride on a spirited chestnut-horse."
When the day came, the youth galloped to the spot, took his place amongst the knights, and was recognized by no one.
The king"s daughter came forward, and threw a golden apple to the knights, but none of them caught it but he, only as soon as he had it he galloped away.
On the second day Iron Hans equipped him as a white knight, and gave him a white horse.
Again he was the only one who caught the apple, and he did not linger an instant, but galloped off with it.
The king grew angry, and said: "That is not allowed; he must appear before me and tell his name."
He gave the order that if the knight who caught the apple, should go away again they should pursue him, and if he would not come back willingly, they were to cut him down and stab him.
On the third day, he received from Iron Hans a suit of black armour and a black horse, and again he caught the apple.
But when he was riding off with it, the king"s attendants pursued him, and one of them got so near him that he wounded the youth"s leg with the point of his sword.
The youth nevertheless escaped from them, but his horse leapt so violently that the helmet fell from the youth"s head, and they could see that he had golden hair.
They rode back and announced this to the king.
The following day the king"s daughter asked the gardener about his boy.
"He is at work in the garden; the queer creature has been at the festival too, and only came home yesterday evening; he has likewise shown my children three golden apples which he has won."
The king had him summoned into his presence, and he came and again had his little cap on his head.
But the king"s daughter went up to him and took it off, and then his golden hair fell down over his shoulders, and he was so handsome that all were amazed.
"Are you the knight who came every day to the festival, always in different colours, and who caught the three golden apples?" asked the king.
"Yes," answered he, "and here the apples are," and he took them out of his pocket, and returned them to the king.
"If you desire further proof, you may see the wound which your people gave me when they followed me.
But I am likewise the knight who helped you to your victory over your enemies."
"If you can perform such deeds as that, you are no gardener"s boy; tell me, who is your father?"
"My father is a mighty king, and gold have I in plenty as great as I require."
"I well see," said the king, "that I owe my thanks to you; can I do anything to please you?"
"Yes," answered he, "that indeed you can.
Give me your daughter to wife."
The maiden laughed, and said: "He does not stand much on ceremony, but I have already seen by his golden hair that he was no gardener"s boy," and then she went and kissed him.
His father and mother came to the wedding, and were in great delight, for they had given up all hope of ever seeing their dear son again.
And as they were sitting at the marriage-feast, the music suddenly stopped, the doors opened, and a stately king came in with a great retinue.
He went up to the youth, embraced him and said: "I am Iron Hans, and was by enchantment a wild man, but you have set me free; all the treasures which I possess, shall be your property."
There was once an old castle, that stood in the middle of a deep gloomy wood, and in the castle lived an old fairy.
Now this fairy could take any shape she pleased.
All the day long she flew about in the form of an owl, or crept about the country like a cat; but at night she always became an old woman again.
When any young man came within a hundred paces of her castle, he became quite fixed, and could not move a step till she came and set him free; which she would not do till he had given her his word never to come there again: but when any pretty maiden came within that space she was changed into a bird, and the fairy put her into a cage, and hung her up in a chamber in the castle.
There were seven hundred of these cages hanging in the castle, and all with beautiful birds in them.
Now there was once a maiden whose name was Jorinda.
She was prettier than all the pretty girls that ever were seen before, and a shepherd lad, whose name was Jorindel, was very fond of her, and they were soon to be married.
One day they went to walk in the wood, that they might be alone; and Jorindel said, "We must take care that we don"t go too near to the fairy"s castle."
It was a beautiful evening; the last rays of the setting sun shone bright through the long stems of the trees upon the green underwood beneath, and the turtle-doves sang from the tall birches.
Jorinda sat down to gaze upon the sun; Jorindel sat by her side; and both felt sad, they knew not why; but it seemed as if they were to be parted from one another for ever.
They had wandered a long way; and when they looked to see which way they should go home, they found themselves at a loss to know what path to take.
The sun was setting fast, and already half of its circle had sunk behind the hill: Jorindel on a sudden looked behind him, and saw through the bushes that they had, without knowing it, sat down close under the old walls of the castle.
Then he shrank for fear, turned pale, and trembled.
Jorinda was just singing,
"The ring-dove sang from the willow spray, Well-a-day!
Well-a-day!
He mourn"d for the fate of his darling mate, Well-a-day!"
when her song stopped suddenly.
Jorindel turned to see the reason, and beheld his Jorinda changed into a nightingale, so that her song ended with a mournful /jug, jug/.
An owl with fiery eyes flew three times round them, and three times screamed:
"Tu whu!
Tu whu!
Tu whu!"
Jorindel could not move; he stood fixed as a stone, and could neither weep, nor speak, nor stir hand or foot.
And now the sun went quite down; the gloomy night came; the owl flew into a bush; and a moment after the old fairy came forth pale and meagre, with staring eyes, and a nose and chin that almost met one another.
She mumbled something to herself, seized the nightingale, and went away with it in her hand.
Poor Jorindel saw the nightingale was gone-- but what could he do?
He could not speak, he could not move from the spot where he stood.
At last the fairy came back and sang with a hoarse voice:
"Till the prisoner is fast, And her doom is cast, There stay!
Oh, stay!
When the charm is around her, And the spell has bound her, Hie away! away!"
On a sudden Jorindel found himself free.
Then he fell on his knees before the fairy, and prayed her to give him back his dear Jorinda: but she laughed at him, and said he should never see her again; then she went her way.
He prayed, he wept, he sorrowed, but all in vain.
"Alas!" he said, "what will become of me?"
He could not go back to his own home, so he went to a strange village, and employed himself in keeping sheep.
Many a time did he walk round and round as near to the hated castle as he dared go, but all in vain; he heard or saw nothing of Jorinda.
At last he dreamt one night that he found a beautiful purple flower, and that in the middle of it lay a costly pearl; and he dreamt that he plucked the flower, and went with it in his hand into the castle, and that everything he touched with it was disenchanted, and that there he found his Jorinda again.
In the morning when he awoke, he began to search over hill and dale for this pretty flower; and eight long days he sought for it in vain: but on the ninth day, early in the morning, he found the beautiful purple flower; and in the middle of it was a large dewdrop, as big as a costly pearl.
Then he plucked the flower, and set out and travelled day and night, till he came again to the castle.
He walked nearer than a hundred paces to it, and yet he did not become fixed as before, but found that he could go quite close up to the door.
Jorindel was very glad indeed to see this.
Then he touched the door with the flower, and it sprang open; so that he went in through the court, and listened when he heard so many birds singing.
At last he came to the chamber where the fairy sat, with the seven hundred birds singing in the seven hundred cages.
When she saw Jorindel she was very angry, and screamed with rage; but she could not come within two yards of him, for the flower he held in his hand was his safeguard.
He looked around at the birds, but alas! there were many, many nightingales, and how then should he find out which was his Jorinda?
While he was thinking what to do, he saw the fairy had taken down one of the cages, and was making the best of her way off through the door.
He ran or flew after her, touched the cage with the flower, and Jorinda stood before him, and threw her arms round his neck looking as beautiful as ever, as beautiful as when they walked together in the wood.
Then he touched all the other birds with the flower, so that they all took their old forms again; and he took Jorinda home, where they were married, and lived happily together many years: and so did a good many other lads, whose maidens had been forced to sing in the old fairy"s cages by themselves, much longer than they liked.
A great king of a land far away in the East had a daughter who was very beautiful, but so proud, and haughty, and conceited, that none of the princes who came to ask her in marriage was good enough for her, and she only made sport of them.
Once upon a time the king held a great feast, and asked thither all her suitors; and they all sat in a row, ranged according to their rank --kings, and princes, and dukes, and earls, and counts, and barons, and knights.
Then the princess came in, and as she passed by them she had something spiteful to say to every one.
The first was too fat: "He"s as round as a tub," said she.
The next was too tall: "What a maypole!" said she.
The next was too short: "What a dumpling!" said she.
The fourth was too pale, and she called him "Wallface."
The fifth was too red, so she called him "Coxcomb."
The sixth was not straight enough; so she said he was like a green stick, that had been laid to dry over a baker"s oven.
And thus she had some joke to crack upon every one: but she laughed more than all at a good king who was there.
"Look at him," said she; "his beard is like an old mop; he shall be called Grisly-beard."
So the king got the nickname of Grisly-beard.
But the old king was very angry when he saw how his daughter behaved, and how she ill-treated all his guests; and he vowed that, willing or unwilling, she should marry the first man, be he prince or beggar, that came to the door.
Two days after there came by a travelling fiddler, who began to play under the window and beg alms; and when the king heard him, he said, "Let him come in."
So they brought in a dirty-looking fellow; and when he had sung before the king and the princess, he begged a boon.
Then the king said, "You have sung so well, that I will give you my daughter for your wife."
The princess begged and prayed; but the king said, "I have sworn to give you to the first comer, and I will keep my word."
So words and tears were of no avail; the parson was sent for, and she was married to the fiddler.
When this was over the king said, "Now get ready to go--you must not stay here--you must travel on with your husband."
Then the fiddler went his way, and took her with him, and they soon came to a great wood.
"Pray," said she, "whose is this wood?"
"It belongs to King Grisly-beard," answered he; "hadst thou taken him, all had been thine."
"Ah! unlucky wretch that I am!" sighed she; "would that I had married King Grisly-beard!"
Next they came to some fine meadows.
"Whose are these beautiful green meadows?" said she.
"They belong to King Grisly-beard, hadst thou taken him, they had all been thine."
"Ah! unlucky wretch that I am!" said she; "would that I had married King Grisly-beard!"
Then they came to a great city.
"Whose is this noble city?" said she.
"It belongs to King Grisly-beard; hadst thou taken him, it had all been thine."
"Ah! wretch that I am!" sighed she; "why did I not marry King Grisly-beard?"
"That is no business of mine," said the fiddler: "why should you wish for another husband?
Am not I good enough for you?"
At last they came to a small cottage.
"What a paltry place!" said she; "to whom does that little dirty hole belong?"
Then the fiddler said, "That is your and my house, where we are to live."
"Where are your servants?" cried she.
"What do we want with servants?" said he; "you must do for yourself whatever is to be done.
Now make the fire, and put on water and cook my supper, for I am very tired."
But the princess knew nothing of making fires and cooking, and the fiddler was forced to help her.
When they had eaten a very scanty meal they went to bed; but the fiddler called her up very early in the morning to clean the house.
Thus they lived for two days: and when they had eaten up all there was in the cottage, the man said, "Wife, we can"t go on thus, spending money and earning nothing.
You must learn to weave baskets."
Then he went out and cut willows, and brought them home, and she began to weave; but it made her fingers very sore.
"I see this work won"t do," said he: "try and spin; perhaps you will do that better."
So she sat down and tried to spin; but the threads cut her tender fingers till the blood ran.
"See now," said the fiddler, "you are good for nothing; you can do no work: what a bargain I have got!
However, I"ll try and set up a trade in pots and pans, and you shall stand in the market and sell them."
"Alas!" sighed she, "if any of my father"s court should pass by and see me standing in the market, how they will laugh at me!"
But her husband did not care for that, and said she must work, if she did not wish to die of hunger.
At first the trade went well; for many people, seeing such a beautiful woman, went to buy her wares, and paid their money without thinking of taking away the goods.
They lived on this as long as it lasted; and then her husband bought a fresh lot of ware, and she sat herself down with it in the corner of the market; but a drunken soldier soon came by, and rode his horse against her stall, and broke all her goods into a thousand pieces.
Then she began to cry, and knew not what to do.
"Ah! what will become of me?" said she; "what will my husband say?"
So she ran home and told him all.
"Who would have thought you would have been so silly," said he, "as to put an earthenware stall in the corner of the market, where everybody passes? but let us have no more crying; I see you are not fit for this sort of work, so I have been to the king"s palace, and asked if they did not want a kitchen-maid; and they say they will take you, and there you will have plenty to eat."
Thus the princess became a kitchen-maid, and helped the cook to do all the dirtiest work; but she was allowed to carry home some of the meat that was left, and on this they lived.
She had not been there long before she heard that the king"s eldest son was passing by, going to be married; and she went to one of the windows and looked out.
Everything was ready, and all the pomp and brightness of the court was there.
Then she bitterly grieved for the pride and folly which had brought her so low.
And the servants gave her some of the rich meats, which she put into her basket to take home.
All on a sudden, as she was going out, in came the king"s son in golden clothes; and when he saw a beautiful woman at the door, he took her by the hand, and said she should be his partner in the dance; but she trembled for fear, for she saw that it was King Grisly-beard, who was making sport of her.
However, he kept fast hold, and led her in; and the cover of the basket came off, so that the meats in it fell about.
Then everybody laughed and jeered at her; and she was so abashed, that she wished herself a thousand feet deep in the earth.
She sprang to the door to run away; but on the steps King Grisly-beard overtook her, and brought her back and said, "Fear me not!
I am the fiddler who has lived with you in the hut.
I brought you there because I really loved you.
I am also the soldier that overset your stall.
I have done all this only to cure you of your silly pride, and to show you the folly of your ill-treatment of me.
Now all is over: you have learnt wisdom, and it is time to hold our marriage feast."
Then the chamberlains came and brought her the most beautiful robes; and her father and his whole court were there already, and welcomed her home on her marriage.
Joy was in every face and every heart.
The feast was grand; they danced and sang; all were merry; and I only wish that you and I had been of the party.
A merchant, who had three daughters, was once setting out upon a journey; but before he went he asked each daughter what gift he should bring back for her.
The eldest wished for pearls; the second for jewels; but the third, who was called Lily, said, "Dear father, bring me a rose."
Now it was no easy task to find a rose, for it was the middle of winter; yet as she was his prettiest daughter, and was very fond of flowers, her father said he would try what he could do.
So he kissed all three, and bid them goodbye.
And when the time came for him to go home, he had bought pearls and jewels for the two eldest, but he had sought everywhere in vain for the rose; and when he went into any garden and asked for such a thing, the people laughed at him, and asked him whether he thought roses grew in snow.
This grieved him very much, for Lily was his dearest child; and as he was journeying home, thinking what he should bring her, he came to a fine castle; and around the castle was a garden, in one half of which it seemed to be summer-time and in the other half winter.
On one side the finest flowers were in full bloom, and on the other everything looked dreary and buried in the snow.
"A lucky hit!" said he, as he called to his servant, and told him to go to a beautiful bed of roses that was there, and bring him away one of the finest flowers.
This done, they were riding away well pleased, when up sprang a fierce lion, and roared out, "Whoever has stolen my roses shall be eaten up alive!"
Then the man said, "I knew not that the garden belonged to you; can nothing save my life?"
"No!" said the lion, "nothing, unless you undertake to give me whatever meets you on your return home; if you agree to this, I will give you your life, and the rose too for your daughter."
But the man was unwilling to do so and said, "It may be my youngest daughter, who loves me most, and always runs to meet me when I go home."
Then the servant was greatly frightened, and said, "It may perhaps be only a cat or a dog."
And at last the man yielded with a heavy heart, and took the rose; and said he would give the lion whatever should meet him first on his return.
And as he came near home, it was Lily, his youngest and dearest daughter, that met him; she came running, and kissed him, and welcomed him home; and when she saw that he had brought her the rose, she was still more glad.
But her father began to be very sorrowful, and to weep, saying, "Alas, my dearest child!
I have bought this flower at a high price, for I have said I would give you to a wild lion; and when he has you, he will tear you in pieces, and eat you."
Then he told her all that had happened, and said she should not go, let what would happen.
But she comforted him, and said, "Dear father, the word you have given must be kept; I will go to the lion, and soothe him: perhaps he will let me come safe home again."
The next morning she asked the way she was to go, and took leave of her father, and went forth with a bold heart into the wood.
But the lion was an enchanted prince.
By day he and all his court were lions, but in the evening they took their right forms again.
And when Lily came to the castle, he welcomed her so courteously that she agreed to marry him.
The wedding-feast was held, and they lived happily together a long time.
The prince was only to be seen as soon as evening came, and then he held his court; but every morning he left his bride, and went away by himself, she knew not whither, till the night came again.
After some time he said to her, "Tomorrow there will be a great feast in your father"s house, for your eldest sister is to be married; and if you wish to go and visit her my lions shall lead you thither."
Then she rejoiced much at the thoughts of seeing her father once more, and set out with the lions; and everyone was overjoyed to see her, for they had thought her dead long since.
But she told them how happy she was, and stayed till the feast was over, and then went back to the wood.
Her second sister was soon after married, and when Lily was asked to go to the wedding, she said to the prince, "I will not go alone this time--you must go with me."
But he would not, and said that it would be a very hazardous thing; for if the least ray of the torch-light should fall upon him his enchantment would become still worse, for he should be changed into a dove, and be forced to wander about the world for seven long years.
However, she gave him no rest, and said she would take care no light should fall upon him.
So at last they set out together, and took with them their little child; and she chose a large hall with thick walls for him to sit in while the wedding-torches were lighted; but, unluckily, no one saw that there was a crack in the door.
Then the wedding was held with great pomp, but as the train came from the church, and passed with the torches before the hall, a very small ray of light fell upon the prince.
In a moment he disappeared, and when his wife came in and looked for him, she found only a white dove; and it said to her, "Seven years must I fly up and down over the face of the earth, but every now and then I will let fall a white feather, that will show you the way I am going; follow it, and at last you may overtake and set me free."
This said, he flew out at the door, and poor Lily followed; and every now and then a white feather fell, and showed her the way she was to journey.
Thus she went roving on through the wide world, and looked neither to the right hand nor to the left, nor took any rest, for seven years.
Then she began to be glad, and thought to herself that the time was fast coming when all her troubles should end; yet repose was still far off, for one day as she was travelling on she missed the white feather, and when she lifted up her eyes she could nowhere see the dove.
"Now," thought she to herself, "no aid of man can be of use to me."
So she went to the sun and said, "Thou shinest everywhere, on the hill"s top and the valley"s depth--hast thou anywhere seen my white dove?"
"No," said the sun, "I have not seen it; but I will give thee a casket--open it when thy hour of need comes."
So she thanked the sun, and went on her way till eventide; and when the moon arose, she cried unto it, and said, "Thou shinest through the night, over field and grove--hast thou nowhere seen my white dove?"
"No," said the moon, "I cannot help thee but I will give thee an egg-- break it when need comes."
Then she thanked the moon, and went on till the night-wind blew; and she raised up her voice to it, and said, "Thou blowest through every tree and under every leaf--hast thou not seen my white dove?"
"No," said the night-wind, "but I will ask three other winds; perhaps they have seen it."
Then the east wind and the west wind came, and said they too had not seen it, but the south wind said, "I have seen the white dove--he has fled to the Red Sea, and is changed once more into a lion, for the seven years are passed away, and there he is fighting with a dragon; and the dragon is an enchanted princess, who seeks to separate him from you."
Then the night-wind said, "I will give thee counsel.
Go to the Red Sea; on the right shore stand many rods--count them, and when thou comest to the eleventh, break it off, and smite the dragon with it; and so the lion will have the victory, and both of them will appear to you in their own forms.
Then look round and thou wilt see a griffin, winged like bird, sitting by the Red Sea; jump on to his back with thy beloved one as quickly as possible, and he will carry you over the waters to your home.
I will also give thee this nut," continued the night-wind.
"When you are half-way over, throw it down, and out of the waters will immediately spring up a high nut-tree on which the griffin will be able to rest, otherwise he would not have the strength to bear you the whole way; if, therefore, thou dost forget to throw down the nut, he will let you both fall into the sea."
So our poor wanderer went forth, and found all as the night-wind had said; and she plucked the eleventh rod, and smote the dragon, and the lion forthwith became a prince, and the dragon a princess again.
But no sooner was the princess released from the spell, than she seized the prince by the arm and sprang on to the griffin"s back, and went off carrying the prince away with her.
Thus the unhappy traveller was again forsaken and forlorn; but she took heart and said, "As far as the wind blows, and so long as the cock crows, I will journey on, till I find him once again."
She went on for a long, long way, till at length she came to the castle whither the princess had carried the prince; and there was a feast got ready, and she heard that the wedding was about to be held.
"Heaven aid me now!" said she; and she took the casket that the sun had given her, and found that within it lay a dress as dazzling as the sun itself.
So she put it on, and went into the palace, and all the people gazed upon her; and the dress pleased the bride so much that she asked whether it was to be sold.
"Not for gold and silver." said she, "but for flesh and blood."
The princess asked what she meant, and she said, "Let me speak with the bridegroom this night in his chamber, and I will give thee the dress."
At last the princess agreed, but she told her chamberlain to give the prince a sleeping draught, that he might not hear or see her.
When evening came, and the prince had fallen asleep, she was led into his chamber, and she sat herself down at his feet, and said: "I have followed thee seven years.
I have been to the sun, the moon, and the night-wind, to seek thee, and at last I have helped thee to overcome the dragon.
Wilt thou then forget me quite?"
But the prince all the time slept so soundly, that her voice only passed over him, and seemed like the whistling of the wind among the fir-trees.
Then poor Lily was led away, and forced to give up the golden dress; and when she saw that there was no help for her, she went out into a meadow, and sat herself down and wept.
But as she sat she bethought herself of the egg that the moon had given her; and when she broke it, there ran out a hen and twelve chickens of pure gold, that played about, and then nestled under the old one"s wings, so as to form the most beautiful sight in the world.
And she rose up and drove them before her, till the bride saw them from her window, and was so pleased that she came forth and asked her if she would sell the brood.
"Not for gold or silver, but for flesh and blood: let me again this evening speak with the bridegroom in his chamber, and I will give thee the whole brood."
Then the princess thought to betray her as before, and agreed to what she asked: but when the prince went to his chamber he asked the chamberlain why the wind had whistled so in the night.
And the chamberlain told him all--how he had given him a sleeping draught, and how a poor maiden had come and spoken to him in his chamber, and was to come again that night.
Then the prince took care to throw away the sleeping draught; and when Lily came and began again to tell him what woes had befallen her, and how faithful and true to him she had been, he knew his beloved wife"s voice, and sprang up, and said, "You have awakened me as from a dream, for the strange princess had thrown a spell around me, so that I had altogether forgotten you; but Heaven hath sent you to me in a lucky hour."
And they stole away out of the palace by night unawares, and seated themselves on the griffin, who flew back with them over the Red Sea.
When they were half-way across Lily let the nut fall into the water, and immediately a large nut-tree arose from the sea, whereon the griffin rested for a while, and then carried them safely home.
There they found their child, now grown up to be comely and fair; and after all their troubles they lived happily together to the end of their days.
Once upon a time there was a dear little girl who was loved by everyone who looked at her, but most of all by her grandmother, and there was nothing that she would not have given to the child.
Once she gave her a little cap of red velvet, which suited her so well that she would never wear anything else; so she was always called "Little RedCap."
One day her mother said to her: "Come, Little Red-Cap, here is a piece of cake and a bottle of wine; take them to your grandmother, she is ill and weak, and they will do her good.
Set out before it gets hot, and when you are going, walk nicely and quietly and do not run off the path, or you may fall and break the bottle, and then your grandmother will get nothing; and when you go into her room, don"t forget to say, "Good morning", and don"t peep into every corner before you do it."
"I will take great care," said Little Red-Cap to her mother, and gave her hand on it.
The grandmother lived out in the wood, half a league from the village, and just as Little Red-Cap entered the wood, a wolf met her.
Red-Cap did not know what a wicked creature he was, and was not at all afraid of him.
"Good day, Little Red-Cap," said he.
"Thank you kindly, wolf."
"Whither away so early, Little Red-Cap?"
"To my grandmother"s."
"What have you got in your apron?"
"Cake and wine; yesterday was baking-day, so poor sick grandmother is to have something good, to make her stronger."
"Where does your grandmother live, Little Red-Cap?"
"A good quarter of a league farther on in the wood; her house stands under the three large oak-trees, the nut-trees are just below; you surely must know it," replied Little Red-Cap.
The wolf thought to himself: "What a tender young creature! what a nice plump mouthful--she will be better to eat than the old woman.
I must act craftily, so as to catch both."
So he walked for a short time by the side of Little Red-Cap, and then he said: "See, Little Red-Cap, how pretty the flowers are about here--why do you not look round?
I believe, too, that you do not hear how sweetly the little birds are singing; you walk gravely along as if you were going to school, while everything else out here in the wood is merry."
Little Red-Cap raised her eyes, and when she saw the sunbeams dancing here and there through the trees, and pretty flowers growing everywhere, she thought: "Suppose I take grandmother a fresh nosegay; that would please her too.
It is so early in the day that I shall still get there in good time"; and so she ran from the path into the wood to look for flowers.
And whenever she had picked one, she fancied that she saw a still prettier one farther on, and ran after it, and so got deeper and deeper into the wood.
Meanwhile the wolf ran straight to the grandmother"s house and knocked at the door.
"Who is there?"
"Little Red-Cap," replied the wolf.
"She is bringing cake and wine; open the door."
"Lift the latch," called out the grandmother, "I am too weak, and cannot get up."
The wolf lifted the latch, the door sprang open, and without saying a word he went straight to the grandmother"s bed, and devoured her.
Then he put on her clothes, dressed himself in her cap laid himself in bed and drew the curtains.
Little Red-Cap, however, had been running about picking flowers, and when she had gathered so many that she could carry no more, she remembered her grandmother, and set out on the way to her.
She was surprised to find the cottage-door standing open, and when she went into the room, she had such a strange feeling that she said to herself: "Oh dear! how uneasy I feel today, and at other times I like being with grandmother so much."
She called out: "Good morning," but received no answer; so she went to the bed and drew back the curtains.
There lay her grandmother with her cap pulled far over her face, and looking very strange.
"Oh! grandmother," she said, "what big ears you have!"
"The better to hear you with, my child," was the reply.
"But, grandmother, what big eyes you have!" she said.
"The better to see you with, my dear."
"But, grandmother, what large hands you have!"
"The better to hug you with."
"Oh! but, grandmother, what a terrible big mouth you have!"
"The better to eat you with!"
And scarcely had the wolf said this, than with one bound he was out of bed and swallowed up Red-Cap.
When the wolf had appeased his appetite, he lay down again in the bed, fell asleep and began to snore very loud.
The huntsman was just passing the house, and thought to himself: "How the old woman is snoring!
I must just see if she wants anything."
So he went into the room, and when he came to the bed, he saw that the wolf was lying in it.
"Do I find you here, you old sinner!" said he.
"I have long sought you!"
Then just as he was going to fire at him, it occurred to him that the wolf might have devoured the grandmother, and that she might still be saved, so he did not fire, but took a pair of scissors, and began to cut open the stomach of the sleeping wolf.
When he had made two snips, he saw the little Red-Cap shining, and then he made two snips more, and the little girl sprang out, crying: "Ah, how frightened I have been!
How dark it was inside the wolf"; and after that the aged grandmother came out alive also, but scarcely able to breathe.
Red-Cap, however, quickly fetched great stones with which they filled the wolf"s belly, and when he awoke, he wanted to run away, but the stones were so heavy that he collapsed at once, and fell dead.
Then all three were delighted.
The huntsman drew off the wolf"s skin and went home with it; the grandmother ate the cake and drank the wine which Red-Cap had brought, and revived, but Red-Cap thought to herself: "As long as I live, I will never by myself leave the path, to run into the wood, when my mother has forbidden me to do so."
It also related that once when Red-Cap was again taking cakes to the old grandmother, another wolf spoke to her, and tried to entice her from the path.
Red-Cap, however, was on her guard, and went straight forward on her way, and told her grandmother that she had met the wolf, and that he had said "good morning" to her, but with such a wicked look in his eyes, that if they had not been on the public road she was certain he would have eaten her up.
"Well," said the grandmother, "we will shut the door, that he may not come in."
Soon afterwards the wolf knocked, and cried: "Open the door, grandmother, I am Little Red-Cap, and am bringing you some cakes."
But they did not speak, or open the door, so the grey-beard stole twice or thrice round the house, and at last jumped on the roof, intending to wait until Red-Cap went home in the evening, and then to steal after her and devour her in the darkness.
But the grandmother saw what was in his thoughts.
In front of the house was a great stone trough, so she said to the child: "Take the pail, Red-Cap; I made some sausages yesterday, so carry the water in which I boiled them to the trough."
Red-Cap carried until the great trough was quite full.
Then the smell of the sausages reached the wolf, and he sniffed and peeped down, and at last stretched out his neck so far that he could no longer keep his footing and began to slip, and slipped down from the roof straight into the great trough, and was drowned.
But Red-Cap went joyously home, and no one ever did anything to harm her again.
Once upon a time there was a widow who had two daughters; one of them was beautiful and industrious, the other ugly and lazy.
The mother, however, loved the ugly and lazy one best, because she was her own daughter, and so the other, who was only her stepdaughter, was made to do all the work of the house, and was quite the Cinderella of the family.
Her stepmother sent her out every day to sit by the well in the high road, there to spin until she made her fingers bleed.
Now it chanced one day that some blood fell on to the spindle, and as the girl stopped over the well to wash it off, the spindle suddenly sprang out of her hand and fell into the well.
She ran home crying to tell of her misfortune, but her stepmother spoke harshly to her, and after giving her a violent scolding, said unkindly, "As you have let the spindle fall into the well you may go yourself and fetch it out."
The girl went back to the well not knowing what to do, and at last in her distress she jumped into the water after the spindle.
She remembered nothing more until she awoke and found herself in a beautiful meadow, full of sunshine, and with countless flowers blooming in every direction.
She walked over the meadow, and presently she came upon a baker"s oven full of bread, and the loaves cried out to her, "Take us out, take us out, or alas! we shall be burnt to a cinder; we were baked through long ago."
So she took the bread-shovel and drew them all out.
She went on a little farther, till she came to a free full of apples.
"Shake me, shake me, I pray," cried the tree; "my apples, one and all, are ripe."
So she shook the tree, and the apples came falling down upon her like rain; but she continued shaking until there was not a single apple left upon it.
Then she carefully gathered the apples together in a heap and walked on again.
The next thing she came to was a little house, and there she saw an old woman looking out, with such large teeth, that she was terrified, and turned to run away.
But the old woman called after her, "What are you afraid of, dear child?
Stay with me; if you will do the work of my house properly for me, I will make you very happy.
You must be very careful, however, to make my bed in the right way, for I wish you always to shake it thoroughly, so that the feathers fly about; then they say, down there in the world, that it is snowing; for I am Mother Holle."
The old woman spoke so kindly, that the girl summoned up courage and agreed to enter into her service.
She took care to do everything according to the old woman"s bidding and every time she made the bed she shook it with all her might, so that the feathers flew about like so many snowflakes.
The old woman was as good as her word: she never spoke angrily to her, and gave her roast and boiled meats every day.
So she stayed on with Mother Holle for some time, and then she began to grow unhappy.
She could not at first tell why she felt sad, but she became conscious at last of great longing to go home; then she knew she was homesick, although she was a thousand times better off with Mother Holle than with her mother and sister.
After waiting awhile, she went to Mother Holle and said, "I am so homesick, that I cannot stay with you any longer, for although I am so happy here, I must return to my own people."
Then Mother Holle said, "I am pleased that you should want to go back to your own people, and as you have served me so well and faithfully, I will take you home myself."
Thereupon she led the girl by the hand up to a broad gateway.
The gate was opened, and as the girl passed through, a shower of gold fell upon her, and the gold clung to her, so that she was covered with it from head to foot.
"That is a reward for your industry," said Mother Holle, and as she spoke she handed her the spindle which she had dropped into the well.
The gate was then closed, and the girl found herself back in the old world close to her mother"s house.
As she entered the courtyard, the cock who was perched on the well, called out:
"Cock-a-doodle-doo!
Your golden daughter"s come back to you."
Then she went in to her mother and sister, and as she was so richly covered with gold, they gave her a warm welcome.
She related to them all that had happened, and when the mother heard how she had come by her great riches, she thought she should like her ugly, lazy daughter to go and try her fortune.
So she made the sister go and sit by the well and spin, and the girl pricked her finger and thrust her hand into a thorn-bush, so that she might drop some blood on to the spindle; then she threw it into the well, and jumped in herself.
Like her sister she awoke in the beautiful meadow, and walked over it till she came to the oven.
"Take us out, take us out, or alas! we shall be burnt to a cinder; we were baked through long ago," cried the loaves as before.
But the lazy girl answered, "Do you think I am going to dirty my hands for you?" and walked on.
Presently she came to the apple-tree.
"Shake me, shake me, I pray; my apples, one and all, are ripe," it cried.
But she only answered, "A nice thing to ask me to do, one of the apples might fall on my head," and passed on.
At last she came to Mother Holle"s house, and as she had heard all about the large teeth from her sister, she was not afraid of them, and engaged herself without delay to the old woman.
The first day she was very obedient and industrious, and exerted herself to please Mother Holle, for she thought of the gold she should get in return.
The next day, however, she began to dawdle over her work, and the third day she was more idle still; then she began to lie in bed in the mornings and refused to get up.
Worse still, she neglected to make the old woman"s bed properly, and forgot to shake it so that the feathers might fly about.
So Mother Holle very soon got tired of her, and told her she might go.
The lazy girl was delighted at this, and thought to herself, "The gold will soon be mine."
Mother Holle led her, as she had led her sister, to the broad gateway; but as she was passing through, instead of the shower of gold, a great bucketful of pitch came pouring over her.
"That is in return for your services," said the old woman, and she shut the gate.
So the lazy girl had to go home covered with pitch, and the cock on the well called out as she saw her:
"Cock-a-doodle-doo!
Your dirty daughter"s come back to you."
But, try what she would, she could not get the pitch off and it stuck to her as long as she lived.
A shepherd had a faithful dog, called Sultan, who was grown very old, and had lost all his teeth.
And one day when the shepherd and his wife were standing together before the house the shepherd said, "I will shoot old Sultan tomorrow morning, for he is of no use now."
But his wife said, "Pray let the poor faithful creature live; he has served us well a great many years, and we ought to give him a livelihood for the rest of his days."
"But what can we do with him?" said the shepherd, "he has not a tooth in his head, and the thieves don"t care for him at all; to be sure he has served us, but then he did it to earn his livelihood; tomorrow shall be his last day, depend upon it."
Poor Sultan, who was lying close by them, heard all that the shepherd and his wife said to one another, and was very much frightened to think tomorrow would be his last day; so in the evening he went to his good friend the wolf, who lived in the wood, and told him all his sorrows, and how his master meant to kill him in the morning.
"Make yourself easy," said the wolf, "I will give you some good advice.
Your master, you know, goes out every morning very early with his wife into the field; and they take their little child with them, and lay it down behind the hedge in the shade while they are at work.
Now do you lie down close by the child, and pretend to be watching it, and I will come out of the wood and run away with it; you must run after me as fast as you can, and I will let it drop; then you may carry it back, and they will think you have saved their child, and will be so thankful to you that they will take care of you as long as you live."
The dog liked this plan very well; and accordingly so it was managed.
The wolf ran with the child a little way; the shepherd and his wife screamed out; but Sultan soon overtook him, and carried the poor little thing back to his master and mistress.
Then the shepherd patted him on the head, and said, "Old Sultan has saved our child from the wolf, and therefore he shall live and be well taken care of, and have plenty to eat.
Wife, go home, and give him a good dinner, and let him have my old cushion to sleep on as long as he lives."
So from this time forward Sultan had all that he could wish for.
Soon afterwards the wolf came and wished him joy, and said, "Now, my good fellow, you must tell no tales, but turn your head the other way when I want to taste one of the old shepherd"s fine fat sheep."
"No," said the Sultan; "I will be true to my master."
However, the wolf thought he was in joke, and came one night to get a dainty morsel.
But Sultan had told his master what the wolf meant to do; so he laid wait for him behind the barn door, and when the wolf was busy looking out for a good fat sheep, he had a stout cudgel laid about his back, that combed his locks for him finely.
Then the wolf was very angry, and called Sultan "an old rogue," and swore he would have his revenge.
So the next morning the wolf sent the boar to challenge Sultan to come into the wood to fight the matter.
Now Sultan had nobody he could ask to be his second but the shepherd"s old three-legged cat; so he took her with him, and as the poor thing limped along with some trouble, she stuck up her tail straight in the air.
The wolf and the wild boar were first on the ground; and when they espied their enemies coming, and saw the cat"s long tail standing straight in the air, they thought she was carrying a sword for Sultan to fight with; and every time she limped, they thought she was picking up a stone to throw at them; so they said they should not like this way of fighting, and the boar lay down behind a bush, and the wolf jumped up into a tree.
Sultan and the cat soon came up, and looked about and wondered that no one was there.
The boar, however, had not quite hidden himself, for his ears stuck out of the bush; and when he shook one of them a little, the cat, seeing something move, and thinking it was a mouse, sprang upon it, and bit and scratched it, so that the boar jumped up and grunted, and ran away, roaring out, "Look up in the tree, there sits the one who is to blame."
So they looked up, and espied the wolf sitting amongst the branches; and they called him a cowardly rascal, and would not suffer him to come down till he was heartily ashamed of himself, and had promised to be good friends again with old Sultan.
There were once a man and a woman who had long in vain wished for a child.
At length the woman hoped that God was about to grant her desire.
These people had a little window at the back of their house from which a splendid garden could be seen, which was full of the most beautiful flowers and herbs.
It was, however, surrounded by a high wall, and no one dared to go into it because it belonged to an enchantress, who had great power and was dreaded by all the world.
One day the woman was standing by this window and looking down into the garden, when she saw a bed which was planted with the most beautiful rampion (rapunzel), and it looked so fresh and green that she longed for it, she quite pined away, and began to look pale and miserable.
Then her husband was alarmed, and asked: "What ails you, dear wife?"
"Ah," she replied, "if I can"t eat some of the rampion, which is in the garden behind our house, I shall die."
The man, who loved her, thought: "Sooner than let your wife die, bring her some of the rampion yourself, let it cost what it will."
At twilight, he clambered down over the wall into the garden of the enchantress, hastily clutched a handful of rampion, and took it to his wife.
She at once made herself a salad of it, and ate it greedily.
It tasted so good to her--so very good, that the next day she longed for it three times as much as before.
If he was to have any rest, her husband must once more descend into the garden.
In the gloom of evening therefore, he let himself down again; but when he had clambered down the wall he was terribly afraid, for he saw the enchantress standing before him.
"How can you dare," said she with angry look, "descend into my garden and steal my rampion like a thief?
You shall suffer for it!"
"Ah," answered he, "let mercy take the place of justice, I only made up my mind to do it out of necessity.
My wife saw your rampion from the window, and felt such a longing for it that she would have died if she had not got some to eat."
Then the enchantress allowed her anger to be softened, and said to him: "If the case be as you say, I will allow you to take away with you as much rampion as you will, only I make one condition, you must give me the child which your wife will bring into the world; it shall be well treated, and I will care for it like a mother."
The man in his terror consented to everything, and when the woman was brought to bed, the enchantress appeared at once, gave the child the name of Rapunzel, and took it away with her.
Rapunzel grew into the most beautiful child under the sun.
When she was twelve years old, the enchantress shut her into a tower, which lay in a forest, and had neither stairs nor door, but quite at the top was a little window.
When the enchantress wanted to go in, she placed herself beneath it and cried:
"Rapunzel, Rapunzel, Let down your hair to me."
Rapunzel had magnificent long hair, fine as spun gold, and when she heard the voice of the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses, wound them round one of the hooks of the window above, and then the hair fell twenty ells down, and the enchantress climbed up by it.
After a year or two, it came to pass that the king"s son rode through the forest and passed by the tower.
Then he heard a song, which was so charming that he stood still and listened.
This was Rapunzel, who in her solitude passed her time in letting her sweet voice resound.
The king"s son wanted to climb up to her, and looked for the door of the tower, but none was to be found.
He rode home, but the singing had so deeply touched his heart, that every day he went out into the forest and listened to it.
Once when he was thus standing behind a tree, he saw that an enchantress came there, and he heard how she cried:
"Rapunzel, Rapunzel, Let down your hair to me."
Then Rapunzel let down the braids of her hair, and the enchantress climbed up to her.
"If that is the ladder by which one mounts, I too will try my fortune," said he, and the next day when it began to grow dark, he went to the tower and cried:
"Rapunzel, Rapunzel, Let down your hair to me."
Immediately the hair fell down and the king"s son climbed up.
At first Rapunzel was terribly frightened when a man, such as her eyes had never yet beheld, came to her; but the king"s son began to talk to her quite like a friend, and told her that his heart had been so stirred that it had let him have no rest, and he had been forced to see her.
Then Rapunzel lost her fear, and when he asked her if she would take him for her husband, and she saw that he was young and handsome, she thought: "He will love me more than old Dame Gothel does"; and she said yes, and laid her hand in his.
She said: "I will willingly go away with you, but I do not know how to get down.
Bring with you a skein of silk every time that you come, and I will weave a ladder with it, and when that is ready I will descend, and you will take me on your horse."
They agreed that until that time he should come to her every evening, for the old woman came by day.
The enchantress remarked nothing of this, until once Rapunzel said to her: "Tell me, Dame Gothel, how it happens that you are so much heavier for me to draw up than the young king"s son--he is with me in a moment."
"Ah! you wicked child," cried the enchantress.
"What do I hear you say!
I thought I had separated you from all the world, and yet you have deceived me!"
In her anger she clutched Rapunzel"s beautiful tresses, wrapped them twice round her left hand, seized a pair of scissors with the right, and snip, snap, they were cut off, and the lovely braids lay on the ground.
And she was so pitiless that she took poor Rapunzel into a desert where she had to live in great grief and misery.
On the same day that she cast out Rapunzel, however, the enchantress fastened the braids of hair, which she had cut off, to the hook of the window, and when the king"s son came and cried:
"Rapunzel, Rapunzel, Let down your hair to me."
she let the hair down.
The king"s son ascended, but instead of finding his dearest Rapunzel, he found the enchantress, who gazed at him with wicked and venomous looks.
"Aha!" she cried mockingly, "you would fetch your dearest, but the beautiful bird sits no longer singing in the nest; the cat has got it, and will scratch out your eyes as well.
Rapunzel is lost to you; you will never see her again."
The king"s son was beside himself with pain, and in his despair he leapt down from the tower.
He escaped with his life, but the thorns into which he fell pierced his eyes.
Then he wandered quite blind about the forest, ate nothing but roots and berries, and did naught but lament and weep over the loss of his dearest wife.
Thus he roamed about in misery for some years, and at length came to the desert where Rapunzel, with the twins to which she had given birth, a boy and a girl, lived in wretchedness.
He heard a voice, and it seemed so familiar to him that he went towards it, and when he approached, Rapunzel knew him and fell on his neck and wept.
Two of her tears wetted his eyes and they grew clear again, and he could see with them as before.
He led her to his kingdom where he was joyfully received, and they lived for a long time afterwards, happy and contented.
By the side of a wood, in a country a long way off, ran a fine stream of water; and upon the stream there stood a mill.
The miller"s house was close by, and the miller, you must know, had a very beautiful daughter.
She was, moreover, very shrewd and clever; and the miller was so proud of her, that he one day told the king of the land, who used to come and hunt in the wood, that his daughter could spin gold out of straw.
Now this king was very fond of money; and when he heard the miller"s boast his greediness was raised, and he sent for the girl to be brought before him.
Then he led her to a chamber in his palace where there was a great heap of straw, and gave her a spinning-wheel, and said, "All this must be spun into gold before morning, as you love your life."
It was in vain that the poor maiden said that it was only a silly boast of her father, for that she could do no such thing as spin straw into gold: the chamber door was locked, and she was left alone.
She sat down in one corner of the room, and began to bewail her hard fate; when on a sudden the door opened, and a droll-looking little man hobbled in, and said, "Good morrow to you, my good lass; what are you weeping for?"
"Alas!" said she, "I must spin this straw into gold, and I know not how."
"What will you give me," said the hobgoblin, "to do it for you?"
"My necklace," replied the maiden.
He took her at her word, and sat himself down to the wheel, and whistled and sang:
"Round about, round about, Lo and behold!
Reel away, reel away, Straw into gold!"
And round about the wheel went merrily; the work was quickly done, and the straw was all spun into gold.
When the king came and saw this, he was greatly astonished and pleased; but his heart grew still more greedy of gain, and he shut up the poor miller"s daughter again with a fresh task.
Then she knew not what to do, and sat down once more to weep; but the dwarf soon opened the door, and said, "What will you give me to do your task?"
"The ring on my finger," said she.
So her little friend took the ring, and began to work at the wheel again, and whistled and sang:
"Round about, round about, Lo and behold!
Reel away, reel away, Straw into gold!"
till, long before morning, all was done again.
The king was greatly delighted to see all this glittering treasure; but still he had not enough: so he took the miller"s daughter to a yet larger heap, and said, "All this must be spun tonight; and if it is, you shall be my queen."
As soon as she was alone that dwarf came in, and said, "What will you give me to spin gold for you this third time?"
"I have nothing left," said she.
"Then say you will give me," said the little man, "the first little child that you may have when you are queen."
"That may never be," thought the miller"s daughter: and as she knew no other way to get her task done, she said she would do what he asked.
Round went the wheel again to the old song, and the manikin once more spun the heap into gold.
The king came in the morning, and, finding all he wanted, was forced to keep his word; so he married the miller"s daughter, and she really became queen.
At the birth of her first little child she was very glad, and forgot the dwarf, and what she had said.
But one day he came into her room, where she was sitting playing with her baby, and put her in mind of it.
Then she grieved sorely at her misfortune, and said she would give him all the wealth of the kingdom if he would let her off, but in vain; till at last her tears softened him, and he said, "I will give you three days" grace, and if during that time you tell me my name, you shall keep your child."
Now the queen lay awake all night, thinking of all the odd names that she had ever heard; and she sent messengers all over the land to find out new ones.
The next day the little man came, and she began with TIMOTHY, ICHABOD, BENJAMIN, JEREMIAH, and all the names she could remember; but to all and each of them he said, "Madam, that is not my name."
The second day she began with all the comical names she could hear of, BANDY-LEGS, HUNCHBACK, CROOK-SHANKS, and so on; but the little gentleman still said to every one of them, "Madam, that is not my name."
The third day one of the messengers came back, and said, "I have travelled two days without hearing of any other names; but yesterday, as I was climbing a high hill, among the trees of the forest where the fox and the hare bid each other good night, I saw a little hut; and before the hut burnt a fire; and round about the fire a funny little dwarf was dancing upon one leg, and singing:
""Merrily the feast I"ll make.
Today I"ll brew, tomorrow bake; Merrily I"ll dance and sing, For next day will a stranger bring.
Little does my lady dream Rumpelstiltskin is my name!""
When the queen heard this she jumped for joy, and as soon as her little friend came she sat down upon her throne, and called all her court round to enjoy the fun; and the nurse stood by her side with the baby in her arms, as if it was quite ready to be given up.
Then the little man began to chuckle at the thought of having the poor child, to take home with him to his hut in the woods; and he cried out, "Now, lady, what is my name?"
"Is it JOHN?" asked she.
"No, madam!"
"Is it TOM?"
"No, madam!"
"Is it JEMMY?"
"It is not."
"Can your name be RUMPELSTILTSKIN?" said the lady slyly.
"Some witch told you that!-- some witch told you that!" cried the little man, and dashed his right foot in a rage so deep into the floor, that he was forced to lay hold of it with both hands to pull it out.
Then he made the best of his way off, while the nurse laughed and the baby crowed; and all the court jeered at him for having had so much trouble for nothing, and said, "We wish you a very good morning, and a merry feast, Mr RUMPLESTILTSKIN!"
When old Mr Fox was dead, the wolf came as a suitor, and knocked at the door, and the cat who was servant to Mrs Fox, opened it for him.
The wolf greeted her, and said:
"Good day, Mrs Cat of Kehrewit, How comes it that alone you sit?
What are you making good?"
The cat replied:
"In milk I"m breaking bread so sweet, Will you be my guest, and eat?"
"No, thank you, Mrs Cat," answered the wolf.
"Is Mrs Fox not at home?"
The cat said:
"She sits upstairs in her room, Bewailing her sorrowful doom, Bewailing her trouble so sore, For old Mr Fox is no more."
The wolf answered:
"If she"s in want of a husband now, Then will it please her to step below?"
The cat runs quickly up the stair, And lets her tail fly here and there, Until she comes to the parlour door.
With her five gold rings at the door she knocks: "Are you within, good Mistress Fox?
If you"re in want of a husband now, Then will it please you to step below?
Mrs Fox asked: "Has the gentleman red stockings on, and has he a pointed mouth?"
"No," answered the cat.
"Then he won"t do for me."
When the wolf was gone, came a dog, a stag, a hare, a bear, a lion, and all the beasts of the forest, one after the other.
But one of the good qualities which old Mr Fox had possessed, was always lacking, and the cat had continually to send the suitors away.
At length came a young fox.
Then Mrs Fox said: "Has the gentleman red stockings on, and has a little pointed mouth?"
"Yes," said the cat, "he has."
"Then let him come upstairs," said Mrs Fox, and ordered the servant to prepare the wedding feast.
"Sweep me the room as clean as you can, Up with the window, fling out my old man!
For many a fine fat mouse he brought, Yet of his wife he never thought, But ate up every one he caught."
Then the wedding was solemnized with young Mr Fox, and there was much rejoicing and dancing; and if they have not left off, they are dancing still.
It was the middle of winter, when the broad flakes of snow were falling around, that the queen of a country many thousand miles off sat working at her window.
The frame of the window was made of fine black ebony, and as she sat looking out upon the snow, she pricked her finger, and three drops of blood fell upon it.
Then she gazed thoughtfully upon the red drops that sprinkled the white snow, and said, "Would that my little daughter may be as white as that snow, as red as that blood, and as black as this ebony windowframe!"
And so the little girl really did grow up; her skin was as white as snow, her cheeks as rosy as the blood, and her hair as black as ebony; and she was called Snowdrop.
But this queen died; and the king soon married another wife, who became queen, and was very beautiful, but so vain that she could not bear to think that anyone could be handsomer than she was.
She had a fairy looking-glass, to which she used to go, and then she would gaze upon herself in it, and say:
"Tell me, glass, tell me true!
Of all the ladies in the land, Who is fairest, tell me, who?"
And the glass had always answered:
"Thou, queen, art the fairest in all the land."
But Snowdrop grew more and more beautiful; and when she was seven years old she was as bright as the day, and fairer than the queen herself.
Then the glass one day answered the queen, when she went to look in it as usual:
"Thou, queen, art fair, and beauteous to see, But Snowdrop is lovelier far than thee!"
When she heard this she turned pale with rage and envy, and called to one of her servants, and said, "Take Snowdrop away into the wide wood, that I may never see her any more."
Then the servant led her away; but his heart melted when Snowdrop begged him to spare her life, and he said, "I will not hurt you, thou pretty child."
So he left her by herself; and though he thought it most likely that the wild beasts would tear her in pieces, he felt as if a great weight were taken off his heart when he had made up his mind not to kill her but to leave her to her fate, with the chance of someone finding and saving her.
Then poor Snowdrop wandered along through the wood in great fear; and the wild beasts roared about her, but none did her any harm.
In the evening she came to a cottage among the hills, and went in to rest, for her little feet would carry her no further.
Everything was spruce and neat in the cottage: on the table was spread a white cloth, and there were seven little plates, seven little loaves, and seven little glasses with wine in them; and seven knives and forks laid in order; and by the wall stood seven little beds.
As she was very hungry, she picked a little piece of each loaf and drank a very little wine out of each glass; and after that she thought she would lie down and rest.
So she tried all the little beds; but one was too long, and another was too short, till at last the seventh suited her: and there she laid herself down and went to sleep.
By and by in came the masters of the cottage.
Now they were seven little dwarfs, that lived among the mountains, and dug and searched for gold.
They lighted up their seven lamps, and saw at once that all was not right.
The first said, "Who has been sitting on my stool?"
The second, "Who has been eating off my plate?"
The third, "Who has been picking my bread?"
The fourth, "Who has been meddling with my spoon?"
The fifth, "Who has been handling my fork?"
The sixth, "Who has been cutting with my knife?"
The seventh, "Who has been drinking my wine?"
Then the first looked round and said, "Who has been lying on my bed?"
And the rest came running to him, and everyone cried out that somebody had been upon his bed.
But the seventh saw Snowdrop, and called all his brethren to come and see her; and they cried out with wonder and astonishment and brought their lamps to look at her, and said, "Good heavens! what a lovely child she is!"
And they were very glad to see her, and took care not to wake her; and the seventh dwarf slept an hour with each of the other dwarfs in turn, till the night was gone.
In the morning Snowdrop told them all her story; and they pitied her, and said if she would keep all things in order, and cook and wash and knit and spin for them, she might stay where she was, and they would take good care of her.
Then they went out all day long to their work, seeking for gold and silver in the mountains: but Snowdrop was left at home; and they warned her, and said, "The queen will soon find out where you are, so take care and let no one in."
But the queen, now that she thought Snowdrop was dead, believed that she must be the handsomest lady in the land; and she went to her glass and said:
"Tell me, glass, tell me true!
Of all the ladies in the land, Who is fairest, tell me, who?"
And the glass answered:
"Thou, queen, art the fairest in all this land: But over the hills, in the greenwood shade, Where the seven dwarfs their dwelling have made, There Snowdrop is hiding her head; and she Is lovelier far, O queen! than thee."
Then the queen was very much frightened; for she knew that the glass always spoke the truth, and was sure that the servant had betrayed her.
And she could not bear to think that anyone lived who was more beautiful than she was; so she dressed herself up as an old pedlar, and went her way over the hills, to the place where the dwarfs dwelt.
Then she knocked at the door, and cried, "Fine wares to sell!"
Snowdrop looked out at the window, and said, "Good day, good woman! what have you to sell?"
"Good wares, fine wares," said she; "laces and bobbins of all colours."
"I will let the old lady in; she seems to be a very good sort of body," thought Snowdrop, as she ran down and unbolted the door.
"Bless me!" said the old woman, "how badly your stays are laced!
Let me lace them up with one of my nice new laces."
Snowdrop did not dream of any mischief; so she stood before the old woman; but she set to work so nimbly, and pulled the lace so tight, that Snowdrop"s breath was stopped, and she fell down as if she were dead.
"There"s an end to all thy beauty," said the spiteful queen, and went away home.
In the evening the seven dwarfs came home; and I need not say how grieved they were to see their faithful Snowdrop stretched out upon the ground, as if she was quite dead.
However, they lifted her up, and when they found what ailed her, they cut the lace; and in a little time she began to breathe, and very soon came to life again.
Then they said, "The old woman was the queen herself; take care another time, and let no one in when we are away."
When the queen got home, she went straight to her glass, and spoke to it as before; but to her great grief it still said:
"Thou, queen, art the fairest in all this land: But over the hills, in the greenwood shade, Where the seven dwarfs their dwelling have made, There Snowdrop is hiding her head; and she Is lovelier far, O queen! than thee."
Then the blood ran cold in her heart with spite and malice, to see that Snowdrop still lived; and she dressed herself up again, but in quite another dress from the one she wore before, and took with her a poisoned comb.
When she reached the dwarfs" cottage, she knocked at the door, and cried, "Fine wares to sell!"
But Snowdrop said, "I dare not let anyone in."
Then the queen said, "Only look at my beautiful combs!" and gave her the poisoned one.
And it looked so pretty, that she took it up and put it into her hair to try it; but the moment it touched her head, the poison was so powerful that she fell down senseless.
"There you may lie," said the queen, and went her way.
But by good luck the dwarfs came in very early that evening; and when they saw Snowdrop lying on the ground, they thought what had happened, and soon found the poisoned comb.
And when they took it away she got well, and told them all that had passed; and they warned her once more not to open the door to anyone.
Meantime the queen went home to her glass, and shook with rage when she read the very same answer as before; and she said, "Snowdrop shall die, if it cost me my life."
So she went by herself into her chamber, and got ready a poisoned apple: the outside looked very rosy and tempting, but whoever tasted it was sure to die.
Then she dressed herself up as a peasant"s wife, and travelled over the hills to the dwarfs" cottage, and knocked at the door; but Snowdrop put her head out of the window and said, "I dare not let anyone in, for the dwarfs have told me not."
"Do as you please," said the old woman, "but at any rate take this pretty apple; I will give it you."
"No," said Snowdrop, "I dare not take it."
"You silly girl!" answered the other, "what are you afraid of?
Do you think it is poisoned?
Come! do you eat one part, and I will eat the other."
Now the apple was so made up that one side was good, though the other side was poisoned.
Then Snowdrop was much tempted to taste, for the apple looked so very nice; and when she saw the old woman eat, she could wait no longer.
But she had scarcely put the piece into her mouth, when she fell down dead upon the ground.
"This time nothing will save thee," said the queen; and she went home to her glass, and at last it said:
"Thou, queen, art the fairest of all the fair."
And then her wicked heart was glad, and as happy as such a heart could be.
When evening came, and the dwarfs had gone home, they found Snowdrop lying on the ground: no breath came from her lips, and they were afraid that she was quite dead.
They lifted her up, and combed her hair, and washed her face with wine and water; but all was in vain, for the little girl seemed quite dead.
So they laid her down upon a bier, and all seven watched and bewailed her three whole days; and then they thought they would bury her: but her cheeks were still rosy; and her face looked just as it did while she was alive; so they said, "We will never bury her in the cold ground."
And they made a coffin of glass, so that they might still look at her, and wrote upon it in golden letters what her name was, and that she was a king"s daughter.
And the coffin was set among the hills, and one of the dwarfs always sat by it and watched.
And the birds of the air came too, and bemoaned Snowdrop; and first of all came an owl, and then a raven, and at last a dove, and sat by her side.
And thus Snowdrop lay for a long, long time, and still only looked as though she was asleep; for she was even now as white as snow, and as red as blood, and as black as ebony.
At last a prince came and called at the dwarfs" house; and he saw Snowdrop, and read what was written in golden letters.
Then he offered the dwarfs money, and prayed and besought them to let him take her away; but they said, "We will not part with her for all the gold in the world."
At last, however, they had pity on him, and gave him the coffin; but the moment he lifted it up to carry it home with him, the piece of apple fell from between her lips, and Snowdrop awoke, and said, "Where am I?"
And the prince said, "Thou art quite safe with me."
Then he told her all that had happened, and said, "I love you far better than all the world; so come with me to my father"s palace, and you shall be my wife."
And Snowdrop consented, and went home with the prince; and everything was got ready with great pomp and splendour for their wedding.
To the feast was asked, among the rest, Snowdrop"s old enemy the queen; and as she was dressing herself in fine rich clothes, she looked in the glass and said:
"Tell me, glass, tell me true!
Of all the ladies in the land, Who is fairest, tell me, who?"
And the glass answered:
"Thou, lady, art loveliest here, I ween; But lovelier far is the new-made queen."
When she heard this she started with rage; but her envy and curiosity were so great, that she could not help setting out to see the bride.
And when she got there, and saw that it was no other than Snowdrop, who, as she thought, had been dead a long while, she choked with rage, and fell down and died: but Snowdrop and the prince lived and reigned happily over that land many, many years; and sometimes they went up into the mountains, and paid a visit to the little dwarfs, who had been so kind to Snowdrop in her time of need.
There was once upon a time a woman who was a real witch and had two daughters, one ugly and wicked, and this one she loved because she was her own daughter, and one beautiful and good, and this one she hated, because she was her stepdaughter.
The stepdaughter once had a pretty apron, which the other fancied so much that she became envious, and told her mother that she must and would have that apron.
"Be quiet, my child," said the old woman, "and you shall have it.
Your stepsister has long deserved death; tonight when she is asleep I will come and cut her head off.
Only be careful that you are at the far side of the bed, and push her well to the front."
It would have been all over with the poor girl if she had not just then been standing in a corner, and heard everything.
All day long she dared not go out of doors, and when bedtime had come, the witch"s daughter got into bed first, so as to lie at the far side, but when she was asleep, the other pushed her gently to the front, and took for herself the place at the back, close by the wall.
In the night, the old woman came creeping in, she held an axe in her right hand, and felt with her left to see if anyone were lying at the outside, and then she grasped the axe with both hands, and cut her own child"s head off.
When she had gone away, the girl got up and went to her sweetheart, who was called Roland, and knocked at his door.
When he came out, she said to him: "Listen, dearest Roland, we must fly in all haste; my stepmother wanted to kill me, but has struck her own child.
When daylight comes, and she sees what she has done, we shall be lost."
"But," said Roland, "I counsel you first to take away her magic wand, or we cannot escape if she pursues us."
The maiden fetched the magic wand, and she took the dead girl"s head and dropped three drops of blood on the ground, one in front of the bed, one in the kitchen, and one on the stairs.
Then she hurried away with her lover.
When the old witch got up next morning, she called her daughter, and wanted to give her the apron, but she did not come.
Then the witch cried: "Where are you?"
"Here, on the stairs, I am sweeping," answered the first drop of blood.
The old woman went out, but saw no one on the stairs, and cried again: "Where are you?"
"Here in the kitchen, I am warming myself," cried the second drop of blood.
She went into the kitchen, but found no one.
Then she cried again: "Where are you?"
"Ah, here in the bed, I am sleeping," cried the third drop of blood.
She went into the room to the bed.
What did she see there?
Her own child, whose head she had cut off, bathed in her blood.
The witch fell into a passion, sprang to the window, and as she could look forth quite far into the world, she perceived her stepdaughter hurrying away with her sweetheart Roland.
"That shall not help you," cried she, "even if you have got a long way off, you shall still not escape me."
She put on her many-league boots, in which she covered an hour"s walk at every step, and it was not long before she overtook them.
The girl, however, when she saw the old woman striding towards her, changed, with her magic wand, her sweetheart Roland into a lake, and herself into a duck swimming in the middle of it.
The witch placed herself on the shore, threw breadcrumbs in, and went to endless trouble to entice the duck; but the duck did not let herself be enticed, and the old woman had to go home at night as she had come.
At this the girl and her sweetheart Roland resumed their natural shapes again, and they walked on the whole night until daybreak.
Then the maiden changed herself into a beautiful flower which stood in the midst of a briar hedge, and her sweetheart Roland into a fiddler.
It was not long before the witch came striding up towards them, and said to the musician: "Dear musician, may I pluck that beautiful flower for myself?"
"Oh, yes," he replied, "I will play to you while you do it."
As she was hastily creeping into the hedge and was just going to pluck the flower, knowing perfectly well who the flower was, he began to play, and whether she would or not, she was forced to dance, for it was a magical dance.
The faster he played, the more violent springs was she forced to make, and the thorns tore her clothes from her body, and pricked her and wounded her till she bled, and as he did not stop, she had to dance till she lay dead on the ground.
As they were now set free, Roland said: "Now I will go to my father and arrange for the wedding."
"Then in the meantime I will stay here and wait for you," said the girl, "and that no one may recognize me, I will change myself into a red stone landmark."
Then Roland went away, and the girl stood like a red landmark in the field and waited for her beloved.
But when Roland got home, he fell into the snares of another, who so fascinated him that he forgot the maiden.
The poor girl remained there a long time, but at length, as he did not return at all, she was sad, and changed herself into a flower, and thought: "Someone will surely come this way, and trample me down."
It befell, however, that a shepherd kept his sheep in the field and saw the flower, and as it was so pretty, plucked it, took it with him, and laid it away in his chest.
From that time forth, strange things happened in the shepherd"s house.
When he arose in the morning, all the work was already done, the room was swept, the table and benches cleaned, the fire in the hearth was lighted, and the water was fetched, and at noon, when he came home, the table was laid, and a good dinner served.
He could not conceive how this came to pass, for he never saw a human being in his house, and no one could have concealed himself in it.
He was certainly pleased with this good attendance, but still at last he was so afraid that he went to a wise woman and asked for her advice.
The wise woman said: "There is some enchantment behind it, listen very early some morning if anything is moving in the room, and if you see anything, no matter what it is, throw a white cloth over it, and then the magic will be stopped."
The shepherd did as she bade him, and next morning just as day dawned, he saw the chest open, and the flower come out.
Swiftly he sprang towards it, and threw a white cloth over it.
Instantly the transformation came to an end, and a beautiful girl stood before him, who admitted to him that she had been the flower, and that up to this time she had attended to his house-keeping.
She told him her story, and as she pleased him he asked her if she would marry him, but she answered: "No," for she wanted to remain faithful to her sweetheart Roland, although he had deserted her.
Nevertheless, she promised not to go away, but to continue keeping house for the shepherd.
And now the time drew near when Roland"s wedding was to be celebrated, and then, according to an old custom in the country, it was announced that all the girls were to be present at it, and sing in honour of the bridal pair.
When the faithful maiden heard of this, she grew so sad that she thought her heart would break, and she would not go thither, but the other girls came and took her.
When it came to her turn to sing, she stepped back, until at last she was the only one left, and then she could not refuse.
But when she began her song, and it reached Roland"s ears, he sprang up and cried: "I know the voice, that is the true bride, I will have no other!"
Everything he had forgotten, and which had vanished from his mind, had suddenly come home again to his heart.
Then the faithful maiden held her wedding with her sweetheart Roland, and grief came to an end and joy began.
1.
HOW THEY WENT TO THE MOUNTAINS TO EAT NUTS
"The nuts are quite ripe now," said Chanticleer to his wife Partlet, "suppose we go together to the mountains, and eat as many as we can, before the squirrel takes them all away."
"With all my heart," said Partlet, "let us go and make a holiday of it together."
So they went to the mountains; and as it was a lovely day, they stayed there till the evening.
Now, whether it was that they had eaten so many nuts that they could not walk, or whether they were lazy and would not, I do not know: however, they took it into their heads that it did not become them to go home on foot.
So Chanticleer began to build a little carriage of nutshells: and when it was finished, Partlet jumped into it and sat down, and bid Chanticleer harness himself to it and draw her home.
"That"s a good joke!" said Chanticleer; "no, that will never do; I had rather by half walk home; I"ll sit on the box and be coachman, if you like, but I"ll not draw."
While this was passing, a duck came quacking up and cried out, "You thieving vagabonds, what business have you in my grounds?
I"ll give it you well for your insolence!" and upon that she fell upon Chanticleer most lustily.
But Chanticleer was no coward, and returned the duck"s blows with his sharp spurs so fiercely that she soon began to cry out for mercy; which was only granted her upon condition that she would draw the carriage home for them.
This she agreed to do; and Chanticleer got upon the box, and drove, crying, "Now, duck, get on as fast as you can."
And away they went at a pretty good pace.
After they had travelled along a little way, they met a needle and a pin walking together along the road: and the needle cried out, "Stop, stop!" and said it was so dark that they could hardly find their way, and such dirty walking they could not get on at all: he told them that he and his friend, the pin, had been at a public-house a few miles off, and had sat drinking till they had forgotten how late it was; he begged therefore that the travellers would be so kind as to give them a lift in their carriage.
Chanticleer observing that they were but thin fellows, and not likely to take up much room, told them they might ride, but made them promise not to dirty the wheels of the carriage in getting in, nor to tread on Partlet"s toes.
Late at night they arrived at an inn; and as it was bad travelling in the dark, and the duck seemed much tired, and waddled about a good deal from one side to the other, they made up their minds to fix their quarters there: but the landlord at first was unwilling, and said his house was full, thinking they might not be very respectable company: however, they spoke civilly to him, and gave him the egg which Partlet had laid by the way, and said they would give him the duck, who was in the habit of laying one every day: so at last he let them come in, and they bespoke a handsome supper, and spent the evening very jollily.
Early in the morning, before it was quite light, and when nobody was stirring in the inn, Chanticleer awakened his wife, and, fetching the egg, they pecked a hole in it, ate it up, and threw the shells into the fireplace: they then went to the pin and needle, who were fast asleep, and seizing them by the heads, stuck one into the landlord"s easy chair and the other into his handkerchief; and, having done this, they crept away as softly as possible.
However, the duck, who slept in the open air in the yard, heard them coming, and jumping into the brook which ran close by the inn, soon swam out of their reach.
An hour or two afterwards the landlord got up, and took his handkerchief to wipe his face, but the pin ran into him and pricked him: then he walked into the kitchen to light his pipe at the fire, but when he stirred it up the eggshells flew into his eyes, and almost blinded him.
"Bless me!" said he, "all the world seems to have a design against my head this morning": and so saying, he threw himself sulkily into his easy chair; but, oh dear! the needle ran into him; and this time the pain was not in his head.
He now flew into a very great passion, and, suspecting the company who had come in the night before, he went to look after them, but they were all off; so he swore that he never again would take in such a troop of vagabonds, who ate a great deal, paid no reckoning, and gave him nothing for his trouble but their apish tricks.
2.
HOW CHANTICLEER AND PARTLET WENT TO VIST MR KORBES
Another day, Chanticleer and Partlet wished to ride out together; so Chanticleer built a handsome carriage with four red wheels, and harnessed six mice to it; and then he and Partlet got into the carriage, and away they drove.
Soon afterwards a cat met them, and said, "Where are you going?"
And Chanticleer replied,
"All on our way A visit to pay To Mr Korbes, the fox, today."
Then the cat said, "Take me with you," Chanticleer said, "With all my heart: get up behind, and be sure you do not fall off."
"Take care of this handsome coach of mine, Nor dirty my pretty red wheels so fine!
Now, mice, be ready, And, wheels, run steady!
For we are going a visit to pay To Mr Korbes, the fox, today."
Soon after came up a millstone, an egg, a duck, and a pin; and Chanticleer gave them all leave to get into the carriage and go with them.
When they arrived at Mr Korbes"s house, he was not at home; so the mice drew the carriage into the coach-house, Chanticleer and Partlet flew upon a beam, the cat sat down in the fireplace, the duck got into the washing cistern, the pin stuck himself into the bed pillow, the millstone laid himself over the house door, and the egg rolled himself up in the towel.
When Mr Korbes came home, he went to the fireplace to make a fire; but the cat threw all the ashes in his eyes: so he ran to the kitchen to wash himself; but there the duck splashed all the water in his face; and when he tried to wipe himself, the egg broke to pieces in the towel all over his face and eyes.
Then he was very angry, and went without his supper to bed; but when he laid his head on the pillow, the pin ran into his cheek: at this he became quite furious, and, jumping up, would have run out of the house; but when he came to the door, the millstone fell down on his head, and killed him on the spot.
3.
HOW PARTLET DIED AND WAS BURIED, AND HOW CHANTICLEER DIED OF GRIEF
Another day Chanticleer and Partlet agreed to go again to the mountains to eat nuts; and it was settled that all the nuts which they found should be shared equally between them.
Now Partlet found a very large nut; but she said nothing about it to Chanticleer, and kept it all to herself: however, it was so big that she could not swallow it, and it stuck in her throat.
Then she was in a great fright, and cried out to Chanticleer, "Pray run as fast as you can, and fetch me some water, or I shall be choked."
Chanticleer ran as fast as he could to the river, and said, "River, give me some water, for Partlet lies in the mountain, and will be choked by a great nut."
The river said, "Run first to the bride, and ask her for a silken cord to draw up the water."
Chanticleer ran to the bride, and said, "Bride, you must give me a silken cord, for then the river will give me water, and the water I will carry to Partlet, who lies on the mountain, and will be choked by a great nut."
But the bride said, "Run first, and bring me my garland that is hanging on a willow in the garden."
Then Chanticleer ran to the garden, and took the garland from the bough where it hung, and brought it to the bride; and then the bride gave him the silken cord, and he took the silken cord to the river, and the river gave him water, and he carried the water to Partlet; but in the meantime she was choked by the great nut, and lay quite dead, and never moved any more.
Then Chanticleer was very sorry, and cried bitterly; and all the beasts came and wept with him over poor Partlet.
And six mice built a little hearse to carry her to her grave; and when it was ready they harnessed themselves before it, and Chanticleer drove them.
On the way they met the fox.
"Where are you going, Chanticleer?" said he.
"To bury my Partlet," said the other.
"May I go with you?" said the fox.
"Yes; but you must get up behind, or my horses will not be able to draw you."
Then the fox got up behind; and presently the wolf, the bear, the goat, and all the beasts of the wood, came and climbed upon the hearse.
So on they went till they came to a rapid stream.
"How shall we get over?" said Chanticleer.
Then said a straw, "I will lay myself across, and you may pass over upon me."
But as the mice were going over, the straw slipped away and fell into the water, and the six mice all fell in and were drowned.
What was to be done?
Then a large log of wood came and said, "I am big enough; I will lay myself across the stream, and you shall pass over upon me."
So he laid himself down; but they managed so clumsily, that the log of wood fell in and was carried away by the stream.
Then a stone, who saw what had happened, came up and kindly offered to help poor Chanticleer by laying himself across the stream; and this time he got safely to the other side with the hearse, and managed to get Partlet out of it; but the fox and the other mourners, who were sitting behind, were too heavy, and fell back into the water and were all carried away by the stream and drowned.
Thus Chanticleer was left alone with his dead Partlet; and having dug a grave for her, he laid her in it, and made a little hillock over her.
Then he sat down by the grave, and wept and mourned, till at last he died too; and so all were dead.
There was once upon a time a soldier who for many years had served the king faithfully, but when the war came to an end could serve no longer because of the many wounds which he had received.
The king said to him: "You may return to your home, I need you no longer, and you will not receive any more money, for he only receives wages who renders me service for them."
Then the soldier did not know how to earn a living, went away greatly troubled, and walked the whole day, until in the evening he entered a forest.
When darkness came on, he saw a light, which he went up to, and came to a house wherein lived a witch.
"Do give me one night"s lodging, and a little to eat and drink," said he to her, "or I shall starve."
"Oho!" she answered, "who gives anything to a run-away soldier?
Yet will I be compassionate, and take you in, if you will do what I wish."
"What do you wish?" said the soldier.
"That you should dig all round my garden for me, tomorrow."
The soldier consented, and next day laboured with all his strength, but could not finish it by the evening.
"I see well enough," said the witch, "that you can do no more today, but I will keep you yet another night, in payment for which you must tomorrow chop me a load of wood, and chop it small."
The soldier spent the whole day in doing it, and in the evening the witch proposed that he should stay one night more.
"Tomorrow, you shall only do me a very trifling piece of work.
Behind my house, there is an old dry well, into which my light has fallen, it burns blue, and never goes out, and you shall bring it up again."
Next day the old woman took him to the well, and let him down in a basket.
He found the blue light, and made her a signal to draw him up again.
She did draw him up, but when he came near the edge, she stretched down her hand and wanted to take the blue light away from him.
"No," said he, perceiving her evil intention, "I will not give you the light until I am standing with both feet upon the ground."
The witch fell into a passion, let him fall again into the well, and went away.
The poor soldier fell without injury on the moist ground, and the blue light went on burning, but of what use was that to him?
He saw very well that he could not escape death.
He sat for a while very sorrowfully, then suddenly he felt in his pocket and found his tobacco pipe, which was still half full.
"This shall be my last pleasure," thought he, pulled it out, lit it at the blue light and began to smoke.
When the smoke had circled about the cavern, suddenly a little black dwarf stood before him, and said: "Lord, what are your commands?"
"What my commands are?" replied the soldier, quite astonished.
"I must do everything you bid me," said the little man.
"Good," said the soldier; "then in the first place help me out of this well."
The little man took him by the hand, and led him through an underground passage, but he did not forget to take the blue light with him.
On the way the dwarf showed him the treasures which the witch had collected and hidden there, and the soldier took as much gold as he could carry.
When he was above, he said to the little man: "Now go and bind the old witch, and carry her before the judge."
In a short time she came by like the wind, riding on a wild tom-cat and screaming frightfully.
Nor was it long before the little man reappeared.
"It is all done," said he, "and the witch is already hanging on the gallows.
What further commands has my lord?" inquired the dwarf.
"At this moment, none," answered the soldier; "you can return home, only be at hand immediately, if I summon you."
"Nothing more is needed than that you should light your pipe at the blue light, and I will appear before you at once."
Thereupon he vanished from his sight.
The soldier returned to the town from which he come.
He went to the best inn, ordered himself handsome clothes, and then bade the landlord furnish him a room as handsome as possible.
When it was ready and the soldier had taken possession of it, he summoned the little black manikin and said: "I have served the king faithfully, but he has dismissed me, and left me to hunger, and now I want to take my revenge."
"What am I to do?" asked the little man.
"Late at night, when the king"s daughter is in bed, bring her here in her sleep, she shall do servant"s work for me."
The manikin said: "That is an easy thing for me to do, but a very dangerous thing for you, for if it is discovered, you will fare ill."
When twelve o"clock had struck, the door sprang open, and the manikin carried in the princess.
"Aha! are you there?" cried the soldier, "get to your work at once!
Fetch the broom and sweep the chamber."
When she had done this, he ordered her to come to his chair, and then he stretched out his feet and said: "Pull off my boots," and then he threw them in her face, and made her pick them up again, and clean and brighten them.
She, however, did everything he bade her, without opposition, silently and with halfshut eyes.
When the first cock crowed, the manikin carried her back to the royal palace, and laid her in her bed.
Next morning when the princess arose she went to her father, and told him that she had had a very strange dream.
"I was carried through the streets with the rapidity of lightning," said she, "and taken into a soldier"s room, and I had to wait upon him like a servant, sweep his room, clean his boots, and do all kinds of menial work.
It was only a dream, and yet I am just as tired as if I really had done everything."
"The dream may have been true," said the king.
"I will give you a piece of advice.
Fill your pocket full of peas, and make a small hole in the pocket, and then if you are carried away again, they will fall out and leave a track in the streets."
But unseen by the king, the manikin was standing beside him when he said that, and heard all.
At night when the sleeping princess was again carried through the streets, some peas certainly did fall out of her pocket, but they made no track, for the crafty manikin had just before scattered peas in every street there was.
And again the princess was compelled to do servant"s work until cock-crow.
Next morning the king sent his people out to seek the track, but it was all in vain, for in every street poor children were sitting, picking up peas, and saying: "It must have rained peas, last night."
"We must think of something else," said the king; "keep your shoes on when you go to bed, and before you come back from the place where you are taken, hide one of them there, I will soon contrive to find it."
The black manikin heard this plot, and at night when the soldier again ordered him to bring the princess, revealed it to him, and told him that he knew of no expedient to counteract this stratagem, and that if the shoe were found in the soldier"s house it would go badly with him.
"Do what I bid you," replied the soldier, and again this third night the princess was obliged to work like a servant, but before she went away, she hid her shoe under the bed.
Next morning the king had the entire town searched for his daughter"s shoe.
It was found at the soldier"s, and the soldier himself, who at the entreaty of the dwarf had gone outside the gate, was soon brought back, and thrown into prison.
In his flight he had forgotten the most valuable things he had, the blue light and the gold, and had only one ducat in his pocket.
And now loaded with chains, he was standing at the window of his dungeon, when he chanced to see one of his comrades passing by.
The soldier tapped at the pane of glass, and when this man came up, said to him: "Be so kind as to fetch me the small bundle I have left lying in the inn, and I will give you a ducat for doing it."
His comrade ran thither and brought him what he wanted.
As soon as the soldier was alone again, he lighted his pipe and summoned the black manikin.
"Have no fear," said the latter to his master.
"Go wheresoever they take you, and let them do what they will, only take the blue light with you."
Next day the soldier was tried, and though he had done nothing wicked, the judge condemned him to death.
When he was led forth to die, he begged a last favour of the king.
"What is it?" asked the king.
"That I may smoke one more pipe on my way."
"You may smoke three," answered the king, "but do not imagine that I will spare your life."
Then the soldier pulled out his pipe and lighted it at the blue light, and as soon as a few wreaths of smoke had ascended, the manikin was there with a small cudgel in his hand, and said: "What does my lord command?"
"Strike down to earth that false judge there, and his constable, and spare not the king who has treated me so ill."
Then the manikin fell on them like lightning, darting this way and that way, and whosoever was so much as touched by his cudgel fell to earth, and did not venture to stir again.
The king was terrified; he threw himself on the soldier"s mercy, and merely to be allowed to live at all, gave him his kingdom for his own, and his daughter to wife.
A shepherd"s dog had a master who took no care of him, but often let him suffer the greatest hunger.
At last he could bear it no longer; so he took to his heels, and off he ran in a very sad and sorrowful mood.
On the road he met a sparrow that said to him, "Why are you so sad, my friend?"
"Because," said the dog, "I am very very hungry, and have nothing to eat."
"If that be all," answered the sparrow, "come with me into the next town, and I will soon find you plenty of food."
So on they went together into the town: and as they passed by a butcher"s shop, the sparrow said to the dog, "Stand there a little while till I peck you down a piece of meat."
So the sparrow perched upon the shelf: and having first looked carefully about her to see if anyone was watching her, she pecked and scratched at a steak that lay upon the edge of the shelf, till at last down it fell.
Then the dog snapped it up, and scrambled away with it into a corner, where he soon ate it all up.
"Well," said the sparrow, "you shall have some more if you will; so come with me to the next shop, and I will peck you down another steak."
When the dog had eaten this too, the sparrow said to him, "Well, my good friend, have you had enough now?"
"I have had plenty of meat," answered he, "but I should like to have a piece of bread to eat after it."
"Come with me then," said the sparrow, "and you shall soon have that too."
So she took him to a baker"s shop, and pecked at two rolls that lay in the window, till they fell down: and as the dog still wished for more, she took him to another shop and pecked down some more for him.
When that was eaten, the sparrow asked him whether he had had enough now.
"Yes," said he; "and now let us take a walk a little way out of the town."
So they both went out upon the high road; but as the weather was warm, they had not gone far before the dog said, "I am very much tired--I should like to take a nap."
"Very well," answered the sparrow, "do so, and in the meantime I will perch upon that bush."
So the dog stretched himself out on the road, and fell fast asleep.
Whilst he slept, there came by a carter with a cart drawn by three horses, and loaded with two casks of wine.
The sparrow, seeing that the carter did not turn out of the way, but would go on in the track in which the dog lay, so as to drive over him, called out, "Stop! stop!
Mr Carter, or it shall be the worse for you."
But the carter, grumbling to himself, "You make it the worse for me, indeed! what can you do?" cracked his whip, and drove his cart over the poor dog, so that the wheels crushed him to death.
"There," cried the sparrow, "thou cruel villain, thou hast killed my friend the dog.
Now mind what I say.
This deed of thine shall cost thee all thou art worth."
"Do your worst, and welcome," said the brute, "what harm can you do me?" and passed on.
But the sparrow crept under the tilt of the cart, and pecked at the bung of one of the casks till she loosened it; and than all the wine ran out, without the carter seeing it.
At last he looked round, and saw that the cart was dripping, and the cask quite empty.
"What an unlucky wretch I am!" cried he.
"Not wretch enough yet!" said the sparrow, as she alighted upon the head of one of the horses, and pecked at him till he reared up and kicked.
When the carter saw this, he drew out his hatchet and aimed a blow at the sparrow, meaning to kill her; but she flew away, and the blow fell upon the poor horse"s head with such force, that he fell down dead.
"Unlucky wretch that I am!" cried he.
"Not wretch enough yet!" said the sparrow.
And as the carter went on with the other two horses, she again crept under the tilt of the cart, and pecked out the bung of the second cask, so that all the wine ran out.
When the carter saw this, he again cried out, "Miserable wretch that I am!"
But the sparrow answered, "Not wretch enough yet!" and perched on the head of the second horse, and pecked at him too.
The carter ran up and struck at her again with his hatchet; but away she flew, and the blow fell upon the second horse and killed him on the spot.
"Unlucky wretch that I am!" said he.
"Not wretch enough yet!" said the sparrow; and perching upon the third horse, she began to peck him too.
The carter was mad with fury; and without looking about him, or caring what he was about, struck again at the sparrow; but killed his third horse as he done the other two.
"Alas! miserable wretch that I am!" cried he.
"Not wretch enough yet!" answered the sparrow as she flew away; "now will I plague and punish thee at thy own house."
The carter was forced at last to leave his cart behind him, and to go home overflowing with rage and vexation.
"Alas!" said he to his wife, "what ill luck has befallen me! --my wine is all spilt, and my horses all three dead."
"Alas! husband," replied she, "and a wicked bird has come into the house, and has brought with her all the birds in the world, I am sure, and they have fallen upon our corn in the loft, and are eating it up at such a rate!"
Away ran the husband upstairs, and saw thousands of birds sitting upon the floor eating up his corn, with the sparrow in the midst of them.
"Unlucky wretch that I am!" cried the carter; for he saw that the corn was almost all gone.
"Not wretch enough yet!" said the sparrow; "thy cruelty shall cost thee they life yet!" and away she flew.
The carter seeing that he had thus lost all that he had, went down into his kitchen; and was still not sorry for what he had done, but sat himself angrily and sulkily in the chimney corner.
But the sparrow sat on the outside of the window, and cried "Carter! thy cruelty shall cost thee thy life!"
With that he jumped up in a rage, seized his hatchet, and threw it at the sparrow; but it missed her, and only broke the window.
The sparrow now hopped in, perched upon the windowseat, and cried, "Carter! it shall cost thee thy life!"
Then he became mad and blind with rage, and struck the window-seat with such force that he cleft it in two: and as the sparrow flew from place to place, the carter and his wife were so furious, that they broke all their furniture, glasses, chairs, benches, the table, and at last the walls, without touching the bird at all.
In the end, however, they caught her: and the wife said, "Shall I kill her at once?"
"No," cried he, "that is letting her off too easily: she shall die a much more cruel death; I will eat her."
But the sparrow began to flutter about, and stretch out her neck and cried, "Carter! it shall cost thee thy life yet!"
With that he could wait no longer: so he gave his wife the hatchet, and cried, "Wife, strike at the bird and kill her in my hand."
And the wife struck; but she missed her aim, and hit her husband on the head so that he fell down dead, and the sparrow flew quietly home to her nest.
There was once a shoemaker, who worked very hard and was very honest: but still he could not earn enough to live upon; and at last all he had in the world was gone, save just leather enough to make one pair of shoes.
Then he cut his leather out, all ready to make up the next day, meaning to rise early in the morning to his work.
His conscience was clear and his heart light amidst all his troubles; so he went peaceably to bed, left all his cares to Heaven, and soon fell asleep.
In the morning after he had said his prayers, he sat himself down to his work; when, to his great wonder, there stood the shoes all ready made, upon the table.
The good man knew not what to say or think at such an odd thing happening.
He looked at the workmanship; there was not one false stitch in the whole job; all was so neat and true, that it was quite a masterpiece.
The same day a customer came in, and the shoes suited him so well that he willingly paid a price higher than usual for them; and the poor shoemaker, with the money, bought leather enough to make two pairs more.
In the evening he cut out the work, and went to bed early, that he might get up and begin betimes next day; but he was saved all the trouble, for when he got up in the morning the work was done ready to his hand.
Soon in came buyers, who paid him handsomely for his goods, so that he bought leather enough for four pair more.
He cut out the work again overnight and found it done in the morning, as before; and so it went on for some time: what was got ready in the evening was always done by daybreak, and the good man soon became thriving and well off again.
One evening, about Christmas-time, as he and his wife were sitting over the fire chatting together, he said to her, "I should like to sit up and watch tonight, that we may see who it is that comes and does my work for me."
The wife liked the thought; so they left a light burning, and hid themselves in a corner of the room, behind a curtain that was hung up there, and watched what would happen.
As soon as it was midnight, there came in two little naked dwarfs; and they sat themselves upon the shoemaker"s bench, took up all the work that was cut out, and began to ply with their little fingers, stitching and rapping and tapping away at such a rate, that the shoemaker was all wonder, and could not take his eyes off them.
And on they went, till the job was quite done, and the shoes stood ready for use upon the table.
This was long before daybreak; and then they bustled away as quick as lightning.
The next day the wife said to the shoemaker.
"These little wights have made us rich, and we ought to be thankful to them, and do them a good turn if we can.
I am quite sorry to see them run about as they do; and indeed it is not very decent, for they have nothing upon their backs to keep off the cold.
I"ll tell you what, I will make each of them a shirt, and a coat and waistcoat, and a pair of pantaloons into the bargain; and do you make each of them a little pair of shoes."
The thought pleased the good cobbler very much; and one evening, when all the things were ready, they laid them on the table, instead of the work that they used to cut out, and then went and hid themselves, to watch what the little elves would do.
About midnight in they came, dancing and skipping, hopped round the room, and then went to sit down to their work as usual; but when they saw the clothes lying for them, they laughed and chuckled, and seemed mightily delighted.
Then they dressed themselves in the twinkling of an eye, and danced and capered and sprang about, as merry as could be; till at last they danced out at the door, and away over the green.
The good couple saw them no more; but everything went well with them from that time forward, as long as they lived.
There was once a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close by the seaside.
The fisherman used to go out all day long a-fishing; and one day, as he sat on the shore with his rod, looking at the sparkling waves and watching his line, all on a sudden his float was dragged away deep into the water: and in drawing it up he pulled out a great fish.
But the fish said, "Pray let me live!
I am not a real fish; I am an enchanted prince: put me in the water again, and let me go!"
"Oh, ho!" said the man, "you need not make so many words about the matter; I will have nothing to do with a fish that can talk: so swim away, sir, as soon as you please!"
Then he put him back into the water, and the fish darted straight down to the bottom, and left a long streak of blood behind him on the wave.
When the fisherman went home to his wife in the pigsty, he told her how he had caught a great fish, and how it had told him it was an enchanted prince, and how, on hearing it speak, he had let it go again.
"Did not you ask it for anything?" said the wife, "we live very wretchedly here, in this nasty dirty pigsty; do go back and tell the fish we want a snug little cottage."
The fisherman did not much like the business: however, he went to the seashore; and when he came back there the water looked all yellow and green.
And he stood at the water"s edge, and said:
"O man of the sea!
Hearken to me!
My wife Ilsabill Will have her own will, And hath sent me to beg a boon of thee!"
Then the fish came swimming to him, and said, "Well, what is her will?
What does your wife want?"
"Ah!" said the fisherman, "she says that when I had caught you, I ought to have asked you for something before I let you go; she does not like living any longer in the pigsty, and wants a snug little cottage."
"Go home, then," said the fish; "she is in the cottage already!"
So the man went home, and saw his wife standing at the door of a nice trim little cottage.
"Come in, come in!" said she; "is not this much better than the filthy pigsty we had?"
And there was a parlour, and a bedchamber, and a kitchen; and behind the cottage there was a little garden, planted with all sorts of flowers and fruits; and there was a courtyard behind, full of ducks and chickens.
"Ah!" said the fisherman, "how happily we shall live now!"
"We will try to do so, at least," said his wife.
Everything went right for a week or two, and then Dame Ilsabill said, "Husband, there is not near room enough for us in this cottage; the courtyard and the garden are a great deal too small; I should like to have a large stone castle to live in: go to the fish again and tell him to give us a castle."
"Wife," said the fisherman, "I don"t like to go to him again, for perhaps he will be angry; we ought to be easy with this pretty cottage to live in."
"Nonsense!" said the wife; "he will do it very willingly, I know; go along and try!"
The fisherman went, but his heart was very heavy: and when he came to the sea, it looked blue and gloomy, though it was very calm; and he went close to the edge of the waves, and said:
"O man of the sea!
Hearken to me!
My wife Ilsabill Will have her own will, And hath sent me to beg a boon of thee!"
"Well, what does she want now?" said the fish.
"Ah!" said the man, dolefully, "my wife wants to live in a stone castle."
"Go home, then," said the fish; "she is standing at the gate of it already."
So away went the fisherman, and found his wife standing before the gate of a great castle.
"See," said she, "is not this grand?"
With that they went into the castle together, and found a great many servants there, and the rooms all richly furnished, and full of golden chairs and tables; and behind the castle was a garden, and around it was a park half a mile long, full of sheep, and goats, and hares, and deer; and in the courtyard were stables and cow-houses.
"Well," said the man, "now we will live cheerful and happy in this beautiful castle for the rest of our lives."
"Perhaps we may," said the wife; "but let us sleep upon it, before we make up our minds to that."
So they went to bed.
The next morning when Dame Ilsabill awoke it was broad daylight, and she jogged the fisherman with her elbow, and said, "Get up, husband, and bestir yourself, for we must be king of all the land."
"Wife, wife," said the man, "why should we wish to be the king?
I will not be king."
"Then I will," said she.
"But, wife," said the fisherman, "how can you be king--the fish cannot make you a king?"
"Husband," said she, "say no more about it, but go and try!
I will be king."
So the man went away quite sorrowful to think that his wife should want to be king.
This time the sea looked a dark grey colour, and was overspread with curling waves and the ridges of foam as he cried out:
"O man of the sea!
Hearken to me!
My wife Ilsabill Will have her own will, And hath sent me to beg a boon of thee!"
"Well, what would she have now?" said the fish.
"Alas!" said the poor man, "my wife wants to be king."
"Go home," said the fish; "she is king already."
Then the fisherman went home; and as he came close to the palace he saw a troop of soldiers, and heard the sound of drums and trumpets.
And when he went in he saw his wife sitting on a throne of gold and diamonds, with a golden crown upon her head; and on each side of her stood six fair maidens, each a head taller than the other.
"Well, wife," said the fisherman, "are you king?"
"Yes," said she, "I am king."
And when he had looked at her for a long time, he said, "Ah, wife! what a fine thing it is to be king!
Now we shall never have anything more to wish for as long as we live."
"I don"t know how that may be," said she; "never is a long time.
I am king, it is true; but I begin to be tired of that, and I think I should like to be emperor."
"Alas, wife! why should you wish to be emperor?" said the fisherman.
"Husband," said she, "go to the fish!
I say I will be emperor."
"Ah, wife!" replied the fisherman, "the fish cannot make an emperor, I am sure, and I should not like to ask him for such a thing."
"I am king," said Ilsabill, "and you are my slave; so go at once!"
So the fisherman was forced to go; and he muttered as he went along, "This will come to no good, it is too much to ask; the fish will be tired at last, and then we shall be sorry for what we have done."
He soon came to the seashore; and the water was quite black and muddy, and a mighty whirlwind blew over the waves and rolled them about, but he went as near as he could to the water"s brink, and said:
"O man of the sea!
Hearken to me!
My wife Ilsabill Will have her own will, And hath sent me to beg a boon of thee!"
"What would she have now?" said the fish.
"Ah!" said the fisherman, "she wants to be emperor."
"Go home," said the fish; "she is emperor already."
So he went home again; and as he came near he saw his wife Ilsabill sitting on a very lofty throne made of solid gold, with a great crown on her head full two yards high; and on each side of her stood her guards and attendants in a row, each one smaller than the other, from the tallest giant down to a little dwarf no bigger than my finger.
And before her stood princes, and dukes, and earls: and the fisherman went up to her and said, "Wife, are you emperor?"
"Yes," said she, "I am emperor."
"Ah!" said the man, as he gazed upon her, "what a fine thing it is to be emperor!"
"Husband," said she, "why should we stop at being emperor?
I will be pope next."
"O wife, wife!" said he, "how can you be pope? there is but one pope at a time in Christendom."
"Husband," said she, "I will be pope this very day."
"But," replied the husband, "the fish cannot make you pope."
"What nonsense!" said she; "if he can make an emperor, he can make a pope: go and try him."
So the fisherman went.
But when he came to the shore the wind was raging and the sea was tossed up and down in boiling waves, and the ships were in trouble, and rolled fearfully upon the tops of the billows.
In the middle of the heavens there was a little piece of blue sky, but towards the south all was red, as if a dreadful storm was rising.
At this sight the fisherman was dreadfully frightened, and he trembled so that his knees knocked together: but still he went down near to the shore, and said:
"O man of the sea!
Hearken to me!
My wife Ilsabill Will have her own will, And hath sent me to beg a boon of thee!"
"What does she want now?" said the fish.
"Ah!" said the fisherman, "my wife wants to be pope."
"Go home," said the fish; "she is pope already."
Then the fisherman went home, and found Ilsabill sitting on a throne that was two miles high.
And she had three great crowns on her head, and around her stood all the pomp and power of the Church.
And on each side of her were two rows of burning lights, of all sizes, the greatest as large as the highest and biggest tower in the world, and the least no larger than a small rushlight.
"Wife," said the fisherman, as he looked at all this greatness, "are you pope?"
"Yes," said she, "I am pope."
"Well, wife," replied he, "it is a grand thing to be pope; and now you must be easy, for you can be nothing greater."
"I will think about that," said the wife.
Then they went to bed: but Dame Ilsabill could not sleep all night for thinking what she should be next.
At last, as she was dropping asleep, morning broke, and the sun rose.
"Ha!" thought she, as she woke up and looked at it through the window, "after all I cannot prevent the sun rising."
At this thought she was very angry, and wakened her husband, and said, "Husband, go to the fish and tell him I must be lord of the sun and moon."
The fisherman was half asleep, but the thought frightened him so much that he started and fell out of bed.
"Alas, wife!" said he, "cannot you be easy with being pope?"
"No," said she, "I am very uneasy as long as the sun and moon rise without my leave.
Go to the fish at once!"
Then the man went shivering with fear; and as he was going down to the shore a dreadful storm arose, so that the trees and the very rocks shook.
And all the heavens became black with stormy clouds, and the lightnings played, and the thunders rolled; and you might have seen in the sea great black waves, swelling up like mountains with crowns of white foam upon their heads.
And the fisherman crept towards the sea, and cried out, as well as he could:
"O man of the sea!
Hearken to me!
My wife Ilsabill Will have her own will, And hath sent me to beg a boon of thee!"
"What does she want now?" said the fish.
"Ah!" said he, "she wants to be lord of the sun and moon."
"Go home," said the fish, "to your pigsty again."
And there they live to this very day.
"Dear children," said a poor man to his four sons, "I have nothing to give you; you must go out into the wide world and try your luck.
Begin by learning some craft or another, and see how you can get on."
So the four brothers took their walking-sticks in their hands, and their little bundles on their shoulders, and after bidding their father goodbye, went all out at the gate together.
When they had got on some way they came to four crossways, each leading to a different country.
Then the eldest said, "Here we must part; but this day four years we will come back to this spot, and in the meantime each must try what he can do for himself."
So each brother went his way; and as the eldest was hastening on a man met him, and asked him where he was going, and what he wanted.
"I am going to try my luck in the world, and should like to begin by learning some art or trade," answered he.
"Then," said the man, "go with me, and I will teach you to become the cunningest thief that ever was."
"No," said the other, "that is not an honest calling, and what can one look to earn by it in the end but the gallows?"
"Oh!" said the man, "you need not fear the gallows; for I will only teach you to steal what will be fair game: I meddle with nothing but what no one else can get or care anything about, and where no one can find you out."
So the young man agreed to follow his trade, and he soon showed himself so clever, that nothing could escape him that he had once set his mind upon.
The second brother also met a man, who, when he found out what he was setting out upon, asked him what craft he meant to follow.
"I do not know yet," said he.
"Then come with me, and be a star-gazer.
It is a noble art, for nothing can be hidden from you, when once you understand the stars."
The plan pleased him much, and he soon became such a skilful star-gazer, that when he had served out his time, and wanted to leave his master, he gave him a glass, and said, "With this you can see all that is passing in the sky and on earth, and nothing can be hidden from you."
The third brother met a huntsman, who took him with him, and taught him so well all that belonged to hunting, that he became very clever in the craft of the woods; and when he left his master he gave him a bow, and said, "Whatever you shoot at with this bow you will be sure to hit."
The youngest brother likewise met a man who asked him what he wished to do.
"Would not you like," said he, "to be a tailor?"
"Oh, no!" said the young man; "sitting cross-legged from morning to night, working backwards and forwards with a needle and goose, will never suit me."
"Oh!" answered the man, "that is not my sort of tailoring; come with me, and you will learn quite another kind of craft from that."
Not knowing what better to do, he came into the plan, and learnt tailoring from the beginning; and when he left his master, he gave him a needle, and said, "You can sew anything with this, be it as soft as an egg or as hard as steel; and the joint will be so fine that no seam will be seen."
After the space of four years, at the time agreed upon, the four brothers met at the four cross-roads; and having welcomed each other, set off towards their father"s home, where they told him all that had happened to them, and how each had learned some craft.
Then, one day, as they were sitting before the house under a very high tree, the father said, "I should like to try what each of you can do in this way."
So he looked up, and said to the second son, "At the top of this tree there is a chaffinch"s nest; tell me how many eggs there are in it."
The star-gazer took his glass, looked up, and said, "Five."
"Now," said the father to the eldest son, "take away the eggs without letting the bird that is sitting upon them and hatching them know anything of what you are doing."
So the cunning thief climbed up the tree, and brought away to his father the five eggs from under the bird; and it never saw or felt what he was doing, but kept sitting on at its ease.
Then the father took the eggs, and put one on each corner of the table, and the fifth in the middle, and said to the huntsman, "Cut all the eggs in two pieces at one shot."
The huntsman took up his bow, and at one shot struck all the five eggs as his father wished.
"Now comes your turn," said he to the young tailor; "sew the eggs and the young birds in them together again, so neatly that the shot shall have done them no harm."
Then the tailor took his needle, and sewed the eggs as he was told; and when he had done, the thief was sent to take them back to the nest, and put them under the bird without its knowing it.
Then she went on sitting, and hatched them: and in a few days they crawled out, and had only a little red streak across their necks, where the tailor had sewn them together.
"Well done, sons!" said the old man; "you have made good use of your time, and learnt something worth the knowing; but I am sure I do not know which ought to have the prize.
Oh, that a time might soon come for you to turn your skill to some account!"
Not long after this there was a great bustle in the country; for the king"s daughter had been carried off by a mighty dragon, and the king mourned over his loss day and night, and made it known that whoever brought her back to him should have her for a wife.
Then the four brothers said to each other, "Here is a chance for us; let us try what we can do."
And they agreed to see whether they could not set the princess free.
"I will soon find out where she is, however," said the star-gazer, as he looked through his glass; and he soon cried out, "I see her afar off, sitting upon a rock in the sea, and I can spy the dragon close by, guarding her."
Then he went to the king, and asked for a ship for himself and his brothers; and they sailed together over the sea, till they came to the right place.
There they found the princess sitting, as the star-gazer had said, on the rock; and the dragon was lying asleep, with his head upon her lap.
"I dare not shoot at him," said the huntsman, "for I should kill the beautiful young lady also."
"Then I will try my skill," said the thief, and went and stole her away from under the dragon, so quietly and gently that the beast did not know it, but went on snoring.
Then away they hastened with her full of joy in their boat towards the ship; but soon came the dragon roaring behind them through the air; for he awoke and missed the princess.
But when he got over the boat, and wanted to pounce upon them and carry off the princess, the huntsman took up his bow and shot him straight through the heart so that he fell down dead.
They were still not safe; for he was such a great beast that in his fall he overset the boat, and they had to swim in the open sea upon a few planks.
So the tailor took his needle, and with a few large stitches put some of the planks together; and he sat down upon these, and sailed about and gathered up all pieces of the boat; and then tacked them together so quickly that the boat was soon ready, and they then reached the ship and got home safe.
When they had brought home the princess to her father, there was great rejoicing; and he said to the four brothers, "One of you shall marry her, but you must settle amongst yourselves which it is to be."
Then there arose a quarrel between them; and the star-gazer said, "If I had not found the princess out, all your skill would have been of no use; therefore she ought to be mine."
"Your seeing her would have been of no use," said the thief, "if I had not taken her away from the dragon; therefore she ought to be mine."
"No, she is mine," said the huntsman; "for if I had not killed the dragon, he would, after all, have torn you and the princess into pieces."
"And if I had not sewn the boat together again," said the tailor, "you would all have been drowned, therefore she is mine."
Then the king put in a word, and said, "Each of you is right; and as all cannot have the young lady, the best way is for neither of you to have her: for the truth is, there is somebody she likes a great deal better.
But to make up for your loss, I will give each of you, as a reward for his skill, half a kingdom."
So the brothers agreed that this plan would be much better than either quarrelling or marrying a lady who had no mind to have them.
And the king then gave to each half a kingdom, as he had said; and they lived very happily the rest of their days, and took good care of their father; and somebody took better care of the young lady, than to let either the dragon or one of the craftsmen have her again.
It happened that the cat met the fox in a forest, and as she thought to herself: "He is clever and full of experience, and much esteemed in the world," she spoke to him in a friendly way.
"Good day, dear Mr Fox, how are you?
How is all with you?
How are you getting on in these hard times?"
The fox, full of all kinds of arrogance, looked at the cat from head to foot, and for a long time did not know whether he would give any answer or not.
At last he said: "Oh, you wretched beard-cleaner, you piebald fool, you hungry mouse-hunter, what can you be thinking of?
Have you the cheek to ask how I am getting on?
What have you learnt?
How many arts do you understand?"
"I understand but one," replied the cat, modestly.
"What art is that?" asked the fox.
"When the hounds are following me, I can spring into a tree and save myself."
"Is that all?" said the fox.
"I am master of a hundred arts, and have into the bargain a sackful of cunning.
You make me sorry for you; come with me, I will teach you how people get away from the hounds."
Just then came a hunter with four dogs.
The cat sprang nimbly up a tree, and sat down at the top of it, where the branches and foliage quite concealed her.
"Open your sack, Mr Fox, open your sack," cried the cat to him, but the dogs had already seized him, and were holding him fast.
"Ah, Mr Fox," cried the cat.
"You with your hundred arts are left in the lurch!
Had you been able to climb like me, you would not have lost your life."
A farmer had a horse that had been an excellent faithful servant to him: but he was now grown too old to work; so the farmer would give him nothing more to eat, and said, "I want you no longer, so take yourself off out of my stable; I shall not take you back again until you are stronger than a lion."
Then he opened the door and turned him adrift.
The poor horse was very melancholy, and wandered up and down in the wood, seeking some little shelter from the cold wind and rain.
Presently a fox met him: "What"s the matter, my friend?" said he, "why do you hang down your head and look so lonely and woe-begone?"
"Ah!" replied the horse, "justice and avarice never dwell in one house; my master has forgotten all that I have done for him so many years, and because I can no longer work he has turned me adrift, and says unless I become stronger than a lion he will not take me back again; what chance can I have of that? he knows I have none, or he would not talk so."
However, the fox bid him be of good cheer, and said, "I will help you; lie down there, stretch yourself out quite stiff, and pretend to be dead."
The horse did as he was told, and the fox went straight to the lion who lived in a cave close by, and said to him, "A little way off lies a dead horse; come with me and you may make an excellent meal of his carcase."
The lion was greatly pleased, and set off immediately; and when they came to the horse, the fox said, "You will not be able to eat him comfortably here; I"ll tell you what--I will tie you fast to his tail, and then you can draw him to your den, and eat him at your leisure."
This advice pleased the lion, so he laid himself down quietly for the fox to make him fast to the horse.
But the fox managed to tie his legs together and bound all so hard and fast that with all his strength he could not set himself free.
When the work was done, the fox clapped the horse on the shoulder, and said, "Jip!
Dobbin!
Jip!"
Then up he sprang, and moved off, dragging the lion behind him.
The beast began to roar and bellow, till all the birds of the wood flew away for fright; but the horse let him sing on, and made his way quietly over the fields to his master"s house.
"Here he is, master," said he, "I have got the better of him": and when the farmer saw his old servant, his heart relented, and he said.
"Thou shalt stay in thy stable and be well taken care of."
And so the poor old horse had plenty to eat, and lived--till he died.
One fine evening a young princess put on her bonnet and clogs, and went out to take a walk by herself in a wood; and when she came to a cool spring of water, that rose in the midst of it, she sat herself down to rest a while.
Now she had a golden ball in her hand, which was her favourite plaything; and she was always tossing it up into the air, and catching it again as it fell.
After a time she threw it up so high that she missed catching it as it fell; and the ball bounded away, and rolled along upon the ground, till at last it fell down into the spring.
The princess looked into the spring after her ball, but it was very deep, so deep that she could not see the bottom of it.
Then she began to bewail her loss, and said, "Alas! if I could only get my ball again, I would give all my fine clothes and jewels, and everything that I have in the world."
Whilst she was speaking, a frog put its head out of the water, and said, "Princess, why do you weep so bitterly?"
"Alas!" said she, "what can you do for me, you nasty frog?
My golden ball has fallen into the spring."
The frog said, "I want not your pearls, and jewels, and fine clothes; but if you will love me, and let me live with you and eat from off your golden plate, and sleep upon your bed, I will bring you your ball again."
"What nonsense," thought the princess, "this silly frog is talking!
He can never even get out of the spring to visit me, though he may be able to get my ball for me, and therefore I will tell him he shall have what he asks."
So she said to the frog, "Well, if you will bring me my ball, I will do all you ask."
Then the frog put his head down, and dived deep under the water; and after a little while he came up again, with the ball in his mouth, and threw it on the edge of the spring.
As soon as the young princess saw her ball, she ran to pick it up; and she was so overjoyed to have it in her hand again, that she never thought of the frog, but ran home with it as fast as she could.
The frog called after her, "Stay, princess, and take me with you as you said," But she did not stop to hear a word.
The next day, just as the princess had sat down to dinner, she heard a strange noise--tap, tap--plash, plash--as if something was coming up the marble staircase: and soon afterwards there was a gentle knock at the door, and a little voice cried out and said:
"Open the door, my princess dear, Open the door to thy true love here!
And mind the words that thou and I said By the fountain cool, in the greenwood shade."
Then the princess ran to the door and opened it, and there she saw the frog, whom she had quite forgotten.
At this sight she was sadly frightened, and shutting the door as fast as she could came back to her seat.
The king, her father, seeing that something had frightened her, asked her what was the matter.
"There is a nasty frog," said she, "at the door, that lifted my ball for me out of the spring this morning: I told him that he should live with me here, thinking that he could never get out of the spring; but there he is at the door, and he wants to come in."
While she was speaking the frog knocked again at the door, and said:
"Open the door, my princess dear, Open the door to thy true love here!
And mind the words that thou and I said By the fountain cool, in the greenwood shade."
Then the king said to the young princess, "As you have given your word you must keep it; so go and let him in."
She did so, and the frog hopped into the room, and then straight on--tap, tap--plash, plash-- from the bottom of the room to the top, till he came up close to the table where the princess sat.
"Pray lift me upon chair," said he to the princess, "and let me sit next to you."
As soon as she had done this, the frog said, "Put your plate nearer to me, that I may eat out of it."
This she did, and when he had eaten as much as he could, he said, "Now I am tired; carry me upstairs, and put me into your bed."
And the princess, though very unwilling, took him up in her hand, and put him upon the pillow of her own bed, where he slept all night long.
As soon as it was light he jumped up, hopped downstairs, and went out of the house.
"Now, then," thought the princess, "at last he is gone, and I shall be troubled with him no more."
But she was mistaken; for when night came again she heard the same tapping at the door; and the frog came once more, and said:
"Open the door, my princess dear, Open the door to thy true love here!
And mind the words that thou and I said By the fountain cool, in the greenwood shade."
And when the princess opened the door the frog came in, and slept upon her pillow as before, till the morning broke.
And the third night he did the same.
But when the princess awoke on the following morning she was astonished to see, instead of the frog, a handsome prince, gazing on her with the most beautiful eyes she had ever seen, and standing at the head of her bed.
He told her that he had been enchanted by a spiteful fairy, who had changed him into a frog; and that he had been fated so to abide till some princess should take him out of the spring, and let him eat from her plate, and sleep upon her bed for three nights.
"You," said the prince, "have broken his cruel charm, and now I have nothing to wish for but that you should go with me into my father"s kingdom, where I will marry you, and love you as long as you live."
The young princess, you may be sure, was not long in saying "Yes" to all this; and as they spoke a gay coach drove up, with eight beautiful horses, decked with plumes of feathers and a golden harness; and behind the coach rode the prince"s servant, faithful Heinrich, who had bewailed the misfortunes of his dear master during his enchantment so long and so bitterly, that his heart had well-nigh burst.
They then took leave of the king, and got into the coach with eight horses, and all set out, full of joy and merriment, for the prince"s kingdom, which they reached safely; and there they lived happily a great many years.
A certain king had a beautiful garden, and in the garden stood a tree which bore golden apples.
These apples were always counted, and about the time when they began to grow ripe it was found that every night one of them was gone.
The king became very angry at this, and ordered the gardener to keep watch all night under the tree.
The gardener set his eldest son to watch; but about twelve o"clock he fell asleep, and in the morning another of the apples was missing.
Then the second son was ordered to watch; and at midnight he too fell asleep, and in the morning another apple was gone.
Then the third son offered to keep watch; but the gardener at first would not let him, for fear some harm should come to him: however, at last he consented, and the young man laid himself under the tree to watch.
As the clock struck twelve he heard a rustling noise in the air, and a bird came flying that was of pure gold; and as it was snapping at one of the apples with its beak, the gardener"s son jumped up and shot an arrow at it.
But the arrow did the bird no harm; only it dropped a golden feather from its tail, and then flew away.
The golden feather was brought to the king in the morning, and all the council was called together.
Everyone agreed that it was worth more than all the wealth of the kingdom: but the king said, "One feather is of no use to me, I must have the whole bird."
Then the gardener"s eldest son set out and thought to find the golden bird very easily; and when he had gone but a little way, he came to a wood, and by the side of the wood he saw a fox sitting; so he took his bow and made ready to shoot at it.
Then the fox said, "Do not shoot me, for I will give you good counsel; I know what your business is, and that you want to find the golden bird.
You will reach a village in the evening; and when you get there, you will see two inns opposite to each other, one of which is very pleasant and beautiful to look at: go not in there, but rest for the night in the other, though it may appear to you to be very poor and mean."
But the son thought to himself, "What can such a beast as this know about the matter?"
So he shot his arrow at the fox; but he missed it, and it set up its tail above its back and ran into the wood.
Then he went his way, and in the evening came to the village where the two inns were; and in one of these were people singing, and dancing, and feasting; but the other looked very dirty, and poor.
"I should be very silly," said he, "if I went to that shabby house, and left this charming place"; so he went into the smart house, and ate and drank at his ease, and forgot the bird, and his country too.
Time passed on; and as the eldest son did not come back, and no tidings were heard of him, the second son set out, and the same thing happened to him.
He met the fox, who gave him the good advice: but when he came to the two inns, his eldest brother was standing at the window where the merrymaking was, and called to him to come in; and he could not withstand the temptation, but went in, and forgot the golden bird and his country in the same manner.
Time passed on again, and the youngest son too wished to set out into the wide world to seek for the golden bird; but his father would not listen to it for a long while, for he was very fond of his son, and was afraid that some ill luck might happen to him also, and prevent his coming back.
However, at last it was agreed he should go, for he would not rest at home; and as he came to the wood, he met the fox, and heard the same good counsel.
But he was thankful to the fox, and did not attempt his life as his brothers had done; so the fox said, "Sit upon my tail, and you will travel faster."
So he sat down, and the fox began to run, and away they went over stock and stone so quick that their hair whistled in the wind.
When they came to the village, the son followed the fox"s counsel, and without looking about him went to the shabby inn and rested there all night at his ease.
In the morning came the fox again and met him as he was beginning his journey, and said, "Go straight forward, till you come to a castle, before which lie a whole troop of soldiers fast asleep and snoring: take no notice of them, but go into the castle and pass on and on till you come to a room, where the golden bird sits in a wooden cage; close by it stands a beautiful golden cage; but do not try to take the bird out of the shabby cage and put it into the handsome one, otherwise you will repent it."
Then the fox stretched out his tail again, and the young man sat himself down, and away they went over stock and stone till their hair whistled in the wind.
Before the castle gate all was as the fox had said: so the son went in and found the chamber where the golden bird hung in a wooden cage, and below stood the golden cage, and the three golden apples that had been lost were lying close by it.
Then thought he to himself, "It will be a very droll thing to bring away such a fine bird in this shabby cage"; so he opened the door and took hold of it and put it into the golden cage.
But the bird set up such a loud scream that all the soldiers awoke, and they took him prisoner and carried him before the king.
The next morning the court sat to judge him; and when all was heard, it sentenced him to die, unless he should bring the king the golden horse which could run as swiftly as the wind; and if he did this, he was to have the golden bird given him for his own.
So he set out once more on his journey, sighing, and in great despair, when on a sudden his friend the fox met him, and said, "You see now what has happened on account of your not listening to my counsel.
I will still, however, tell you how to find the golden horse, if you will do as I bid you.
You must go straight on till you come to the castle where the horse stands in his stall: by his side will lie the groom fast asleep and snoring: take away the horse quietly, but be sure to put the old leathern saddle upon him, and not the golden one that is close by it."
Then the son sat down on the fox"s tail, and away they went over stock and stone till their hair whistled in the wind.
All went right, and the groom lay snoring with his hand upon the golden saddle.
But when the son looked at the horse, he thought it a great pity to put the leathern saddle upon it.
"I will give him the good one," said he; "I am sure he deserves it."
As he took up the golden saddle the groom awoke and cried out so loud, that all the guards ran in and took him prisoner, and in the morning he was again brought before the court to be judged, and was sentenced to die.
But it was agreed, that, if he could bring thither the beautiful princess, he should live, and have the bird and the horse given him for his own.
Then he went his way very sorrowful; but the old fox came and said, "Why did not you listen to me?
If you had, you would have carried away both the bird and the horse; yet will I once more give you counsel.
Go straight on, and in the evening you will arrive at a castle.
At twelve o"clock at night the princess goes to the bathing-house: go up to her and give her a kiss, and she will let you lead her away; but take care you do not suffer her to go and take leave of her father and mother."
Then the fox stretched out his tail, and so away they went over stock and stone till their hair whistled again.
As they came to the castle, all was as the fox had said, and at twelve o"clock the young man met the princes going to the bath and gave her the kiss, and she agreed to run away with him, but begged with many tears that he would let her take leave of her father.
At first he refused, but she wept still more and more, and fell at his feet, till at last he consented; but the moment she came to her father"s house the guards awoke and he was taken prisoner again.
Then he was brought before the king, and the king said, "You shall never have my daughter unless in eight days you dig away the hill that stops the view from my window."
Now this hill was so big that the whole world could not take it away: and when he had worked for seven days, and had done very little, the fox came and said.
"Lie down and go to sleep; I will work for you."
And in the morning he awoke and the hill was gone; so he went merrily to the king, and told him that now that it was removed he must give him the princess.
Then the king was obliged to keep his word, and away went the young man and the princess; and the fox came and said to him, "We will have all three, the princess, the horse, and the bird."
"Ah!" said the young man, "that would be a great thing, but how can you contrive it?"
"If you will only listen," said the fox, "it can be done.
When you come to the king, and he asks for the beautiful princess, you must say, "Here she is!"
Then he will be very joyful; and you will mount the golden horse that they are to give you, and put out your hand to take leave of them; but shake hands with the princess last.
Then lift her quickly on to the horse behind you; clap your spurs to his side, and gallop away as fast as you can."
All went right: then the fox said, "When you come to the castle where the bird is, I will stay with the princess at the door, and you will ride in and speak to the king; and when he sees that it is the right horse, he will bring out the bird; but you must sit still, and say that you want to look at it, to see whether it is the true golden bird; and when you get it into your hand, ride away."
This, too, happened as the fox said; they carried off the bird, the princess mounted again, and they rode on to a great wood.
Then the fox came, and said, "Pray kill me, and cut off my head and my feet."
But the young man refused to do it: so the fox said, "I will at any rate give you good counsel: beware of two things; ransom no one from the gallows, and sit down by the side of no river."
Then away he went.
"Well," thought the young man, "it is no hard matter to keep that advice."
He rode on with the princess, till at last he came to the village where he had left his two brothers.
And there he heard a great noise and uproar; and when he asked what was the matter, the people said, "Two men are going to be hanged."
As he came nearer, he saw that the two men were his brothers, who had turned robbers; so he said, "Cannot they in any way be saved?"
But the people said "No," unless he would bestow all his money upon the rascals and buy their liberty.
Then he did not stay to think about the matter, but paid what was asked, and his brothers were given up, and went on with him towards their home.
And as they came to the wood where the fox first met them, it was so cool and pleasant that the two brothers said, "Let us sit down by the side of the river, and rest a while, to eat and drink."
So he said, "Yes," and forgot the fox"s counsel, and sat down on the side of the river; and while he suspected nothing, they came behind, and threw him down the bank, and took the princess, the horse, and the bird, and went home to the king their master, and said.
"All this have we won by our labour."
Then there was great rejoicing made; but the horse would not eat, the bird would not sing, and the princess wept.
The youngest son fell to the bottom of the river"s bed: luckily it was nearly dry, but his bones were almost broken, and the bank was so steep that he could find no way to get out.
Then the old fox came once more, and scolded him for not following his advice; otherwise no evil would have befallen him: "Yet," said he, "I cannot leave you here, so lay hold of my tail and hold fast."
Then he pulled him out of the river, and said to him, as he got upon the bank, "Your brothers have set watch to kill you, if they find you in the kingdom."
So he dressed himself as a poor man, and came secretly to the king"s court, and was scarcely within the doors when the horse began to eat, and the bird to sing, and princess left off weeping.
Then he went to the king, and told him all his brothers" roguery; and they were seized and punished, and he had the princess given to him again; and after the king"s death he was heir to his kingdom.
A long while after, he went to walk one day in the wood, and the old fox met him, and besought him with tears in his eyes to kill him, and cut off his head and feet.
And at last he did so, and in a moment the fox was changed into a man, and turned out to be the brother of the princess, who had been lost a great many many years.
There was a man who had three sons, the youngest of whom was called Dummling,[*] and was despised, mocked, and sneered at on every occasion.
It happened that the eldest wanted to go into the forest to hew wood, and before he went his mother gave him a beautiful sweet cake and a bottle of wine in order that he might not suffer from hunger or thirst.
When he entered the forest he met a little grey-haired old man who bade him good day, and said: "Do give me a piece of cake out of your pocket, and let me have a draught of your wine; I am so hungry and thirsty."
But the clever son answered: "If I give you my cake and wine, I shall have none for myself; be off with you," and he left the little man standing and went on.
But when he began to hew down a tree, it was not long before he made a false stroke, and the axe cut him in the arm, so that he had to go home and have it bound up.
And this was the little grey man"s doing.
After this the second son went into the forest, and his mother gave him, like the eldest, a cake and a bottle of wine.
The little old grey man met him likewise, and asked him for a piece of cake and a drink of wine.
But the second son, too, said sensibly enough: "What I give you will be taken away from myself; be off!" and he left the little man standing and went on.
His punishment, however, was not delayed; when he had made a few blows at the tree he struck himself in the leg, so that he had to be carried home.
Then Dummling said: "Father, do let me go and cut wood."
The father answered: "Your brothers have hurt themselves with it, leave it alone, you do not understand anything about it."
But Dummling begged so long that at last he said: "Just go then, you will get wiser by hurting yourself."
His mother gave him a cake made with water and baked in the cinders, and with it a bottle of sour beer.
When he came to the forest the little old grey man met him likewise, and greeting him, said: "Give me a piece of your cake and a drink out of your bottle; I am so hungry and thirsty."
Dummling answered: "I have only cinder-cake and sour beer; if that pleases you, we will sit down and eat."
So they sat down, and when Dummling pulled out his cinder-cake, it was a fine sweet cake, and the sour beer had become good wine.
So they ate and drank, and after that the little man said: "Since you have a good heart, and are willing to divide what you have, I will give you good luck.
There stands an old tree, cut it down, and you will find something at the roots."
Then the little man took leave of him.
Dummling went and cut down the tree, and when it fell there was a goose sitting in the roots with feathers of pure gold.
He lifted her up, and taking her with him, went to an inn where he thought he would stay the night.
Now the host had three daughters, who saw the goose and were curious to know what such a wonderful bird might be, and would have liked to have one of its golden feathers.
The eldest thought: "I shall soon find an opportunity of pulling out a feather," and as soon as Dummling had gone out she seized the goose by the wing, but her finger and hand remained sticking fast to it.
The second came soon afterwards, thinking only of how she might get a feather for herself, but she had scarcely touched her sister than she was held fast.
At last the third also came with the like intent, and the others screamed out: "Keep away; for goodness" sake keep away!"
But she did not understand why she was to keep away.
"The others are there," she thought, "I may as well be there too," and ran to them; but as soon as she had touched her sister, she remained sticking fast to her.
So they had to spend the night with the goose.
The next morning Dummling took the goose under his arm and set out, without troubling himself about the three girls who were hanging on to it.
They were obliged to run after him continually, now left, now right, wherever his legs took him.
In the middle of the fields the parson met them, and when he saw the procession he said: "For shame, you good-for-nothing girls, why are you running across the fields after this young man?
Is that seemly?"
At the same time he seized the youngest by the hand in order to pull her away, but as soon as he touched her he likewise stuck fast, and was himself obliged to run behind.
Before long the sexton came by and saw his master, the parson, running behind three girls.
He was astonished at this and called out: "Hi! your reverence, whither away so quickly?
Do not forget that we have a christening today!" and running after him he took him by the sleeve, but was also held fast to it.
Whilst the five were trotting thus one behind the other, two labourers came with their hoes from the fields; the parson called out to them and begged that they would set him and the sexton free.
But they had scarcely touched the sexton when they were held fast, and now there were seven of them running behind Dummling and the goose.
Soon afterwards he came to a city, where a king ruled who had a daughter who was so serious that no one could make her laugh.
So he had put forth a decree that whosoever should be able to make her laugh should marry her.
When Dummling heard this, he went with his goose and all her train before the king"s daughter, and as soon as she saw the seven people running on and on, one behind the other, she began to laugh quite loudly, and as if she would never stop.
Thereupon Dummling asked to have her for his wife; but the king did not like the son-inlaw, and made all manner of excuses and said he must first produce a man who could drink a cellarful of wine.
Dummling thought of the little grey man, who could certainly help him; so he went into the forest, and in the same place where he had felled the tree, he saw a man sitting, who had a very sorrowful face.
Dummling asked him what he was taking to heart so sorely, and he answered: "I have such a great thirst and cannot quench it; cold water I cannot stand, a barrel of wine I have just emptied, but that to me is like a drop on a hot stone!"
"There, I can help you," said Dummling, "just come with me and you shall be satisfied."
He led him into the king"s cellar, and the man bent over the huge barrels, and drank and drank till his loins hurt, and before the day was out he had emptied all the barrels.
Then Dummling asked once more for his bride, but the king was vexed that such an ugly fellow, whom everyone called Dummling, should take away his daughter, and he made a new condition; he must first find a man who could eat a whole mountain of bread.
Dummling did not think long, but went straight into the forest, where in the same place there sat a man who was tying up his body with a strap, and making an awful face, and saying: "I have eaten a whole ovenful of rolls, but what good is that when one has such a hunger as I?
My stomach remains empty, and I must tie myself up if I am not to die of hunger."
At this Dummling was glad, and said: "Get up and come with me; you shall eat yourself full."
He led him to the king"s palace where all the flour in the whole Kingdom was collected, and from it he caused a huge mountain of bread to be baked.
The man from the forest stood before it, began to eat, and by the end of one day the whole mountain had vanished.
Then Dummling for the third time asked for his bride; but the king again sought a way out, and ordered a ship which could sail on land and on water.
"As soon as you come sailing back in it," said he, "you shall have my daughter for wife."
Dummling went straight into the forest, and there sat the little grey man to whom he had given his cake.
When he heard what Dummling wanted, he said: "Since you have given me to eat and to drink, I will give you the ship; and I do all this because you once were kind to me."
Then he gave him the ship which could sail on land and water, and when the king saw that, he could no longer prevent him from having his daughter.
The wedding was celebrated, and after the king"s death, Dummling inherited his kingdom and lived for a long time contentedly with his wife.
[*] Simpleton
Long, long ago, some two thousand years or so, there lived a rich man with a good and beautiful wife.
They loved each other dearly, but sorrowed much that they had no children.
So greatly did they desire to have one, that the wife prayed for it day and night, but still they remained childless.
In front of the house there was a court, in which grew a juniper-tree.
One winter"s day the wife stood under the tree to peel some apples, and as she was peeling them, she cut her finger, and the blood fell on the snow.
"Ah," sighed the woman heavily, "if I had but a child, as red as blood and as white as snow," and as she spoke the words, her heart grew light within her, and it seemed to her that her wish was granted, and she returned to the house feeling glad and comforted.
A month passed, and the snow had all disappeared; then another month went by, and all the earth was green.
So the months followed one another, and first the trees budded in the woods, and soon the green branches grew thickly intertwined, and then the blossoms began to fall.
Once again the wife stood under the juniper-tree, and it was so full of sweet scent that her heart leaped for joy, and she was so overcome with her happiness, that she fell on her knees.
Presently the fruit became round and firm, and she was glad and at peace; but when they were fully ripe she picked the berries and ate eagerly of them, and then she grew sad and ill.
A little while later she called her husband, and said to him, weeping.
"If I die, bury me under the juniper-tree."
Then she felt comforted and happy again, and before another month had passed she had a little child, and when she saw that it was as white as snow and as red as blood, her joy was so great that she died.
Her husband buried her under the juniper-tree, and wept bitterly for her.
By degrees, however, his sorrow grew less, and although at times he still grieved over his loss, he was able to go about as usual, and later on he married again.
He now had a little daughter born to him; the child of his first wife was a boy, who was as red as blood and as white as snow.
The mother loved her daughter very much, and when she looked at her and then looked at the boy, it pierced her heart to think that he would always stand in the way of her own child, and she was continually thinking how she could get the whole of the property for her.
This evil thought took possession of her more and more, and made her behave very unkindly to the boy.
She drove him from place to place with cuffings and buffetings, so that the poor child went about in fear, and had no peace from the time he left school to the time he went back.
One day the little daughter came running to her mother in the storeroom, and said, "Mother, give me an apple."
"Yes, my child," said the wife, and she gave her a beautiful apple out of the chest; the chest had a very heavy lid and a large iron lock.
"Mother," said the little daughter again, "may not brother have one too?"
The mother was angry at this, but she answered, "Yes, when he comes out of school."
Just then she looked out of the window and saw him coming, and it seemed as if an evil spirit entered into her, for she snatched the apple out of her little daughter"s hand, and said, "You shall not have one before your brother."
She threw the apple into the chest and shut it to.
The little boy now came in, and the evil spirit in the wife made her say kindly to him, "My son, will you have an apple?" but she gave him a wicked look.
"Mother," said the boy, "how dreadful you look!
Yes, give me an apple."
The thought came to her that she would kill him.
"Come with me," she said, and she lifted up the lid of the chest; "take one out for yourself."
And as he bent over to do so, the evil spirit urged her, and crash! down went the lid, and off went the little boy"s head.
Then she was overwhelmed with fear at the thought of what she had done.
"If only I can prevent anyone knowing that I did it," she thought.
So she went upstairs to her room, and took a white handkerchief out of her top drawer; then she set the boy"s head again on his shoulders, and bound it with the handkerchief so that nothing could be seen, and placed him on a chair by the door with an apple in his hand.
Soon after this, little Marleen came up to her mother who was stirring a pot of boiling water over the fire, and said, "Mother, brother is sitting by the door with an apple in his hand, and he looks so pale; and when I asked him to give me the apple, he did not answer, and that frightened me."
"Go to him again," said her mother, "and if he does not answer, give him a box on the ear."
So little Marleen went, and said, "Brother, give me that apple," but he did not say a word; then she gave him a box on the ear, and his head rolled off.
She was so terrified at this, that she ran crying and screaming to her mother.
"Oh!" she said, "I have knocked off brother"s head," and then she wept and wept, and nothing would stop her.
"What have you done!" said her mother, "but no one must know about it, so you must keep silence; what is done can"t be undone; we will make him into puddings."
And she took the little boy and cut him up, made him into puddings, and put him in the pot.
But Marleen stood looking on, and wept and wept, and her tears fell into the pot, so that there was no need of salt.
Presently the father came home and sat down to his dinner; he asked, "Where is my son?"
The mother said nothing, but gave him a large dish of black pudding, and Marleen still wept without ceasing.
The father again asked, "Where is my son?"
"Oh," answered the wife, "he is gone into the country to his mother"s great uncle; he is going to stay there some time."
"What has he gone there for, and he never even said goodbye to me!"
"Well, he likes being there, and he told me he should be away quite six weeks; he is well looked after there."
"I feel very unhappy about it," said the husband, "in case it should not be all right, and he ought to have said goodbye to me."
With this he went on with his dinner, and said, "Little Marleen, why do you weep?
Brother will soon be back."
Then he asked his wife for more pudding, and as he ate, he threw the bones under the table.
Little Marleen went upstairs and took her best silk handkerchief out of her bottom drawer, and in it she wrapped all the bones from under the table and carried them outside, and all the time she did nothing but weep.
Then she laid them in the green grass under the junipertree, and she had no sooner done so, then all her sadness seemed to leave her, and she wept no more.
And now the juniper-tree began to move, and the branches waved backwards and forwards, first away from one another, and then together again, as it might be someone clapping their hands for joy.
After this a mist came round the tree, and in the midst of it there was a burning as of fire, and out of the fire there flew a beautiful bird, that rose high into the air, singing magnificently, and when it could no more be seen, the juniper-tree stood there as before, and the silk handkerchief and the bones were gone.
Little Marleen now felt as lighthearted and happy as if her brother were still alive, and she went back to the house and sat down cheerfully to the table and ate.
The bird flew away and alighted on the house of a goldsmith and began to sing:
"My mother killed her little son; My father grieved when I was gone; My sister loved me best of all; She laid her kerchief over me, And took my bones that they might lie Underneath the juniper-tree Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!"
The goldsmith was in his workshop making a gold chain, when he heard the song of the bird on his roof.
He thought it so beautiful that he got up and ran out, and as he crossed the threshold he lost one of his slippers.
But he ran on into the middle of the street, with a slipper on one foot and a sock on the other; he still had on his apron, and still held the gold chain and the pincers in his hands, and so he stood gazing up at the bird, while the sun came shining brightly down on the street.
"Bird," he said, "how beautifully you sing!
Sing me that song again."
"Nay," said the bird, "I do not sing twice for nothing.
Give that gold chain, and I will sing it you again."
"Here is the chain, take it," said the goldsmith.
"Only sing me that again."
The bird flew down and took the gold chain in his right claw, and then he alighted again in front of the goldsmith and sang:
"My mother killed her little son; My father grieved when I was gone; My sister loved me best of all; She laid her kerchief over me, And took my bones that they might lie Underneath the juniper-tree Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!"
Then he flew away, and settled on the roof of a shoemaker"s house and sang:
"My mother killed her little son; My father grieved when I was gone; My sister loved me best of all; She laid her kerchief over me, And took my bones that they might lie Underneath the juniper-tree Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!"
The shoemaker heard him, and he jumped up and ran out in his shirtsleeves, and stood looking up at the bird on the roof with his hand over his eyes to keep himself from being blinded by the sun.
"Bird," he said, "how beautifully you sing!"
Then he called through the door to his wife: "Wife, come out; here is a bird, come and look at it and hear how beautifully it sings."
Then he called his daughter and the children, then the apprentices, girls and boys, and they all ran up the street to look at the bird, and saw how splendid it was with its red and green feathers, and its neck like burnished gold, and eyes like two bright stars in its head.
"Bird," said the shoemaker, "sing me that song again."
"Nay," answered the bird, "I do not sing twice for nothing; you must give me something."
"Wife," said the man, "go into the garret; on the upper shelf you will see a pair of red shoes; bring them to me."
The wife went in and fetched the shoes.
"There, bird," said the shoemaker, "now sing me that song again."
The bird flew down and took the red shoes in his left claw, and then he went back to the roof and sang:
"My mother killed her little son; My father grieved when I was gone; My sister loved me best of all; She laid her kerchief over me, And took my bones that they might lie Underneath the juniper-tree Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!"
When he had finished, he flew away.
He had the chain in his right claw and the shoes in his left, and he flew right away to a mill, and the mill went "Click clack, click clack, click clack."
Inside the mill were twenty of the miller"s men hewing a stone, and as they went "Hick hack, hick hack, hick hack," the mill went "Click clack, click clack, click clack."
The bird settled on a lime-tree in front of the mill and sang:
"My mother killed her little son;
then one of the men left off,
My father grieved when I was gone;
two more men left off and listened,
My sister loved me best of all;
then four more left off,
She laid her kerchief over me, And took my bones that they might lie
now there were only eight at work,
Underneath
And now only five,
the juniper-tree.
and now only one,
Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!"
then he looked up and the last one had left off work.
"Bird," he said, "what a beautiful song that is you sing!
Let me hear it too; sing it again."
"Nay," answered the bird, "I do not sing twice for nothing; give me that millstone, and I will sing it again."
"If it belonged to me alone," said the man, "you should have it."
"Yes, yes," said the others: "if he will sing again, he can have it."
The bird came down, and all the twenty millers set to and lifted up the stone with a beam; then the bird put his head through the hole and took the stone round his neck like a collar, and flew back with it to the tree and sang--
"My mother killed her little son; My father grieved when I was gone; My sister loved me best of all; She laid her kerchief over me, And took my bones that they might lie Underneath the juniper-tree Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!"
And when he had finished his song, he spread his wings, and with the chain in his right claw, the shoes in his left, and the millstone round his neck, he flew right away to his father"s house.
The father, the mother, and little Marleen were having their dinner.
"How lighthearted I feel," said the father, "so pleased and cheerful."
"And I," said the mother, "I feel so uneasy, as if a heavy thunderstorm were coming."
But little Marleen sat and wept and wept.
Then the bird came flying towards the house and settled on the roof.
"I do feel so happy," said the father, "and how beautifully the sun shines; I feel just as if I were going to see an old friend again."
"Ah!" said the wife, "and I am so full of distress and uneasiness that my teeth chatter, and I feel as if there were a fire in my veins," and she tore open her dress; and all the while little Marleen sat in the corner and wept, and the plate on her knees was wet with her tears.
The bird now flew to the juniper-tree and began singing:
"My mother killed her little son;
the mother shut her eyes and her ears, that she might see and hear nothing, but there was a roaring sound in her ears like that of a violent storm, and in her eyes a burning and flashing like lightning:
My father grieved when I was gone;
"Look, mother," said the man, "at the beautiful bird that is singing so magnificently; and how warm and bright the sun is, and what a delicious scent of spice in the air!"
My sister loved me best of all;
then little Marleen laid her head down on her knees and sobbed.
"I must go outside and see the bird nearer," said the man.
"Ah, do not go!" cried the wife.
"I feel as if the whole house were in flames!"
But the man went out and looked at the bird.
She laid her kerchief over me, And took my bones that they might lie Underneath the juniper-tree Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!"
With that the bird let fall the gold chain, and it fell just round the man"s neck, so that it fitted him exactly.
He went inside, and said, "See, what a splendid bird that is; he has given me this beautiful gold chain, and looks so beautiful himself."
But the wife was in such fear and trouble, that she fell on the floor, and her cap fell from her head.
Then the bird began again:
"My mother killed her little son;
"Ah me!" cried the wife, "if I were but a thousand feet beneath the earth, that I might not hear that song."
My father grieved when I was gone;
then the woman fell down again as if dead.
My sister loved me best of all;
"Well," said little Marleen, "I will go out too and see if the bird will give me anything."
So she went out.
She laid her kerchief over me, And took my bones that they might lie
and he threw down the shoes to her,
Underneath the juniper-tree Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!"
And she now felt quite happy and lighthearted; she put on the shoes and danced and jumped about in them.
"I was so miserable," she said, "when I came out, but that has all passed away; that is indeed a splendid bird, and he has given me a pair of red shoes."
The wife sprang up, with her hair standing out from her head like flames of fire.
"Then I will go out too," she said, "and see if it will lighten my misery, for I feel as if the world were coming to an end."
But as she crossed the threshold, crash! the bird threw the millstone down on her head, and she was crushed to death.
The father and little Marleen heard the sound and ran out, but they only saw mist and flame and fire rising from the spot, and when these had passed, there stood the little brother, and he took the father and little Marleen by the hand; then they all three rejoiced, and went inside together and sat down to their dinners and ate.
There was once a merchant who had only one child, a son, that was very young, and barely able to run alone.
He had two richly laden ships then making a voyage upon the seas, in which he had embarked all his wealth, in the hope of making great gains, when the news came that both were lost.
Thus from being a rich man he became all at once so very poor that nothing was left to him but one small plot of land; and there he often went in an evening to take his walk, and ease his mind of a little of his trouble.
One day, as he was roaming along in a brown study, thinking with no great comfort on what he had been and what he now was, and was like to be, all on a sudden there stood before him a little, rough-looking, black dwarf.
"Prithee, friend, why so sorrowful?" said he to the merchant; "what is it you take so deeply to heart?"
"If you would do me any good I would willingly tell you," said the merchant.
"Who knows but I may?" said the little man: "tell me what ails you, and perhaps you will find I may be of some use."
Then the merchant told him how all his wealth was gone to the bottom of the sea, and how he had nothing left but that little plot of land.
"Oh, trouble not yourself about that," said the dwarf; "only undertake to bring me here, twelve years hence, whatever meets you first on your going home, and I will give you as much as you please."
The merchant thought this was no great thing to ask; that it would most likely be his dog or his cat, or something of that sort, but forgot his little boy Heinel; so he agreed to the bargain, and signed and sealed the bond to do what was asked of him.
But as he drew near home, his little boy was so glad to see him that he crept behind him, and laid fast hold of his legs, and looked up in his face and laughed.
Then the father started, trembling with fear and horror, and saw what it was that he had bound himself to do; but as no gold was come, he made himself easy by thinking that it was only a joke that the dwarf was playing him, and that, at any rate, when the money came, he should see the bearer, and would not take it in.
About a month afterwards he went upstairs into a lumber-room to look for some old iron, that he might sell it and raise a little money; and there, instead of his iron, he saw a large pile of gold lying on the floor.
At the sight of this he was overjoyed, and forgetting all about his son, went into trade again, and became a richer merchant than before.
Meantime little Heinel grew up, and as the end of the twelve years drew near the merchant began to call to mind his bond, and became very sad and thoughtful; so that care and sorrow were written upon his face.
The boy one day asked what was the matter, but his father would not tell for some time; at last, however, he said that he had, without knowing it, sold him for gold to a little, ugly-looking, black dwarf, and that the twelve years were coming round when he must keep his word.
Then Heinel said, "Father, give yourself very little trouble about that; I shall be too much for the little man."
When the time came, the father and son went out together to the place agreed upon: and the son drew a circle on the ground, and set himself and his father in the middle of it.
The little black dwarf soon came, and walked round and round about the circle, but could not find any way to get into it, and he either could not, or dared not, jump over it.
At last the boy said to him.
"Have you anything to say to us, my friend, or what do you want?"
Now Heinel had found a friend in a good fairy, that was fond of him, and had told him what to do; for this fairy knew what good luck was in store for him.
"Have you brought me what you said you would?" said the dwarf to the merchant.
The old man held his tongue, but Heinel said again, "What do you want here?"
The dwarf said, "I come to talk with your father, not with you."
"You have cheated and taken in my father," said the son; "pray give him up his bond at once."
"Fair and softly," said the little old man; "right is right; I have paid my money, and your father has had it, and spent it; so be so good as to let me have what I paid it for."
"You must have my consent to that first," said Heinel, "so please to step in here, and let us talk it over."
The old man grinned, and showed his teeth, as if he should have been very glad to get into the circle if he could.
Then at last, after a long talk, they came to terms.
Heinel agreed that his father must give him up, and that so far the dwarf should have his way: but, on the other hand, the fairy had told Heinel what fortune was in store for him, if he followed his own course; and he did not choose to be given up to his hump-backed friend, who seemed so anxious for his company.
So, to make a sort of drawn battle of the matter, it was settled that Heinel should be put into an open boat, that lay on the sea-shore hard by; that the father should push him off with his own hand, and that he should thus be set adrift, and left to the bad or good luck of wind and weather.
Then he took leave of his father, and set himself in the boat, but before it got far off a wave struck it, and it fell with one side low in the water, so the merchant thought that poor Heinel was lost, and went home very sorrowful, while the dwarf went his way, thinking that at any rate he had had his revenge.
The boat, however, did not sink, for the good fairy took care of her friend, and soon raised the boat up again, and it went safely on.
The young man sat safe within, till at length it ran ashore upon an unknown land.
As he jumped upon the shore he saw before him a beautiful castle but empty and dreary within, for it was enchanted.
"Here," said he to himself, "must I find the prize the good fairy told me of."
So he once more searched the whole palace through, till at last he found a white snake, lying coiled up on a cushion in one of the chambers.
Now the white snake was an enchanted princess; and she was very glad to see him, and said, "Are you at last come to set me free?
Twelve long years have I waited here for the fairy to bring you hither as she promised, for you alone can save me.
This night twelve men will come: their faces will be black, and they will be dressed in chain armour.
They will ask what you do here, but give no answer; and let them do what they will--beat, whip, pinch, prick, or torment you--bear all; only speak not a word, and at twelve o"clock they must go away.
The second night twelve others will come: and the third night twenty-four, who will even cut off your head; but at the twelfth hour of that night their power is gone, and I shall be free, and will come and bring you the Water of Life, and will wash you with it, and bring you back to life and health."
And all came to pass as she had said; Heinel bore all, and spoke not a word; and the third night the princess came, and fell on his neck and kissed him.
Joy and gladness burst forth throughout the castle, the wedding was celebrated, and he was crowned king of the Golden Mountain.
They lived together very happily, and the queen had a son.
And thus eight years had passed over their heads, when the king thought of his father; and he began to long to see him once again.
But the queen was against his going, and said, "I know well that misfortunes will come upon us if you go."
However, he gave her no rest till she agreed.
At his going away she gave him a wishing-ring, and said, "Take this ring, and put it on your finger; whatever you wish it will bring you; only promise never to make use of it to bring me hence to your father"s house."
Then he said he would do what she asked, and put the ring on his finger, and wished himself near the town where his father lived.
Heinel found himself at the gates in a moment; but the guards would not let him go in, because he was so strangely clad.
So he went up to a neighbouring hill, where a shepherd dwelt, and borrowed his old frock, and thus passed unknown into the town.
When he came to his father"s house, he said he was his son; but the merchant would not believe him, and said he had had but one son, his poor Heinel, who he knew was long since dead: and as he was only dressed like a poor shepherd, he would not even give him anything to eat.
The king, however, still vowed that he was his son, and said, "Is there no mark by which you would know me if I am really your son?"
"Yes," said his mother, "our Heinel had a mark like a raspberry on his right arm."
Then he showed them the mark, and they knew that what he had said was true.
He next told them how he was king of the Golden Mountain, and was married to a princess, and had a son seven years old.
But the merchant said, "that can never be true; he must be a fine king truly who travels about in a shepherd"s frock!"
At this the son was vexed; and forgetting his word, turned his ring, and wished for his queen and son.
In an instant they stood before him; but the queen wept, and said he had broken his word, and bad luck would follow.
He did all he could to soothe her, and she at last seemed to be appeased; but she was not so in truth, and was only thinking how she should punish him.
One day he took her to walk with him out of the town, and showed her the spot where the boat was set adrift upon the wide waters.
Then he sat himself down, and said, "I am very much tired; sit by me, I will rest my head in your lap, and sleep a while."
As soon as he had fallen asleep, however, she drew the ring from his finger, and crept softly away, and wished herself and her son at home in their kingdom.
And when he awoke he found himself alone, and saw that the ring was gone from his finger.
"I can never go back to my father"s house," said he; "they would say I am a sorcerer: I will journey forth into the world, till I come again to my kingdom."
So saying he set out and travelled till he came to a hill, where three giants were sharing their father"s goods; and as they saw him pass they cried out and said, "Little men have sharp wits; he shall part the goods between us."
Now there was a sword that cut off an enemy"s head whenever the wearer gave the words, "Heads off!"; a cloak that made the owner invisible, or gave him any form he pleased; and a pair of boots that carried the wearer wherever he wished.
Heinel said they must first let him try these wonderful things, then he might know how to set a value upon them.
Then they gave him the cloak, and he wished himself a fly, and in a moment he was a fly.
"The cloak is very well," said he: "now give me the sword."
"No," said they; "not unless you undertake not to say, "Heads off!" for if you do we are all dead men."
So they gave it him, charging him to try it on a tree.
He next asked for the boots also; and the moment he had all three in his power, he wished himself at the Golden Mountain; and there he was at once.
So the giants were left behind with no goods to share or quarrel about.
As Heinel came near his castle he heard the sound of merry music; and the people around told him that his queen was about to marry another husband.
Then he threw his cloak around him, and passed through the castle hall, and placed himself by the side of the queen, where no one saw him.
But when anything to eat was put upon her plate, he took it away and ate it himself; and when a glass of wine was handed to her, he took it and drank it; and thus, though they kept on giving her meat and drink, her plate and cup were always empty.
Upon this, fear and remorse came over her, and she went into her chamber alone, and sat there weeping; and he followed her there.
"Alas!" said she to herself, "was I not once set free?
Why then does this enchantment still seem to bind me?"
"False and fickle one!" said he.
"One indeed came who set thee free, and he is now near thee again; but how have you used him?
Ought he to have had such treatment from thee?"
Then he went out and sent away the company, and said the wedding was at an end, for that he was come back to the kingdom.
But the princes, peers, and great men mocked at him.
However, he would enter into no parley with them, but only asked them if they would go in peace or not.
Then they turned upon him and tried to seize him; but he drew his sword.
"Heads Off!" cried he; and with the word the traitors" heads fell before him, and Heinel was once more king of the Golden Mountain.
There was a certain village wherein no one lived but really rich peasants, and just one poor one, whom they called the little peasant.
He had not even so much as a cow, and still less money to buy one, and yet he and his wife did so wish to have one.
One day he said to her: "Listen, I have a good idea, there is our gossip the carpenter, he shall make us a wooden calf, and paint it brown, so that it looks like any other, and in time it will certainly get big and be a cow." the woman also liked the idea, and their gossip the carpenter cut and planed the calf, and painted it as it ought to be, and made it with its head hanging down as if it were eating.
Next morning when the cows were being driven out, the little peasant called the cow-herd in and said: "Look, I have a little calf there, but it is still small and has to be carried."
The cow-herd said: "All right," and took it in his arms and carried it to the pasture, and set it among the grass.
The little calf always remained standing like one which was eating, and the cow-herd said: "It will soon run by itself, just look how it eats already!"
At night when he was going to drive the herd home again, he said to the calf: "If you can stand there and eat your fill, you can also go on your four legs; I don"t care to drag you home again in my arms."
But the little peasant stood at his door, and waited for his little calf, and when the cow-herd drove the cows through the village, and the calf was missing, he inquired where it was.
The cow-herd answered: "It is still standing out there eating.
It would not stop and come with us."
But the little peasant said: "Oh, but I must have my beast back again."
Then they went back to the meadow together, but someone had stolen the calf, and it was gone.
The cow-herd said: "It must have run away."
The peasant, however, said: "Don"t tell me that," and led the cow-herd before the mayor, who for his carelessness condemned him to give the peasant a cow for the calf which had run away.
And now the little peasant and his wife had the cow for which they had so long wished, and they were heartily glad, but they had no food for it, and could give it nothing to eat, so it soon had to be killed.
They salted the flesh, and the peasant went into the town and wanted to sell the skin there, so that he might buy a new calf with the proceeds.
On the way he passed by a mill, and there sat a raven with broken wings, and out of pity he took him and wrapped him in the skin.
But as the weather grew so bad and there was a storm of rain and wind, he could go no farther, and turned back to the mill and begged for shelter.
The miller"s wife was alone in the house, and said to the peasant: "Lay yourself on the straw there," and gave him a slice of bread and cheese.
The peasant ate it, and lay down with his skin beside him, and the woman thought: "He is tired and has gone to sleep."
In the meantime came the parson; the miller"s wife received him well, and said: "My husband is out, so we will have a feast."
The peasant listened, and when he heard them talk about feasting he was vexed that he had been forced to make shift with a slice of bread and cheese.
Then the woman served up four different things, roast meat, salad, cakes, and wine.
Just as they were about to sit down and eat, there was a knocking outside.
The woman said: "Oh, heavens!
It is my husband!" she quickly hid the roast meat inside the tiled stove, the wine under the pillow, the salad on the bed, the cakes under it, and the parson in the closet on the porch.
Then she opened the door for her husband, and said: "Thank heaven, you are back again!
There is such a storm, it looks as if the world were coming to an end."
The miller saw the peasant lying on the straw, and asked, "What is that fellow doing there?"
"Ah," said the wife, "the poor knave came in the storm and rain, and begged for shelter, so I gave him a bit of bread and cheese, and showed him where the straw was."
The man said: "I have no objection, but be quick and get me something to eat."
The woman said: "But I have nothing but bread and cheese."
"I am contented with anything," replied the husband, "so far as I am concerned, bread and cheese will do," and looked at the peasant and said: "Come and eat some more with me."
The peasant did not require to be invited twice, but got up and ate.
After this the miller saw the skin in which the raven was, lying on the ground, and asked: "What have you there?"
The peasant answered: "I have a soothsayer inside it."
"Can he foretell anything to me?" said the miller.
"Why not?" answered the peasant: "but he only says four things, and the fifth he keeps to himself."
The miller was curious, and said: "Let him foretell something for once."
Then the peasant pinched the raven"s head, so that he croaked and made a noise like krr, krr.
The miller said: "What did he say?"
The peasant answered: "In the first place, he says that there is some wine hidden under the pillow."
"Bless me!" cried the miller, and went there and found the wine.
"Now go on," said he.
The peasant made the raven croak again, and said: "In the second place, he says that there is some roast meat in the tiled stove."
"Upon my word!" cried the miller, and went thither, and found the roast meat.
The peasant made the raven prophesy still more, and said: "Thirdly, he says that there is some salad on the bed."
"That would be a fine thing!" cried the miller, and went there and found the salad.
At last the peasant pinched the raven once more till he croaked, and said: "Fourthly, he says that there are some cakes under the bed."
"That would be a fine thing!" cried the miller, and looked there, and found the cakes.
And now the two sat down to the table together, but the miller"s wife was frightened to death, and went to bed and took all the keys with her.
The miller would have liked much to know the fifth, but the little peasant said: "First, we will quickly eat the four things, for the fifth is something bad."
So they ate, and after that they bargained how much the miller was to give for the fifth prophecy, until they agreed on three hundred talers.
Then the peasant once more pinched the raven"s head till he croaked loudly.
The miller asked: "What did he say?"
The peasant replied: "He says that the Devil is hiding outside there in the closet on the porch."
The miller said: "The Devil must go out," and opened the house-door; then the woman was forced to give up the keys, and the peasant unlocked the closet.
The parson ran out as fast as he could, and the miller said: "It was true; I saw the black rascal with my own eyes."
The peasant, however, made off next morning by daybreak with the three hundred talers.
At home the small peasant gradually launched out; he built a beautiful house, and the peasants said: "The small peasant has certainly been to the place where golden snow falls, and people carry the gold home in shovels."
Then the small peasant was brought before the mayor, and bidden to say from whence his wealth came.
He answered: "I sold my cow"s skin in the town, for three hundred talers."
When the peasants heard that, they too wished to enjoy this great profit, and ran home, killed all their cows, and stripped off their skins in order to sell them in the town to the greatest advantage.
The mayor, however, said: "But my servant must go first."
When she came to the merchant in the town, he did not give her more than two talers for a skin, and when the others came, he did not give them so much, and said: "What can I do with all these skins?"
Then the peasants were vexed that the small peasant should have thus outwitted them, wanted to take vengeance on him, and accused him of this treachery before the major.
The innocent little peasant was unanimously sentenced to death, and was to be rolled into the water, in a barrel pierced full of holes.
He was led forth, and a priest was brought who was to say a mass for his soul.
The others were all obliged to retire to a distance, and when the peasant looked at the priest, he recognized the man who had been with the miller"s wife.
He said to him: "I set you free from the closet, set me free from the barrel."
At this same moment up came, with a flock of sheep, the very shepherd whom the peasant knew had long been wishing to be mayor, so he cried with all his might: "No, I will not do it; if the whole world insists on it, I will not do it!"
The shepherd hearing that, came up to him, and asked: "What are you about?
What is it that you will not do?"
The peasant said: "They want to make me mayor, if I will but put myself in the barrel, but I will not do it."
The shepherd said: "If nothing more than that is needful in order to be mayor, I would get into the barrel at once."
The peasant said: "If you will get in, you will be mayor."
The shepherd was willing, and got in, and the peasant shut the top down on him; then he took the shepherd"s flock for himself, and drove it away.
The parson went to the crowd, and declared that the mass had been said.
Then they came and rolled the barrel towards the water.
When the barrel began to roll, the shepherd cried: "I am quite willing to be mayor."
They believed no otherwise than that it was the peasant who was saying this, and answered: "That is what we intend, but first you shall look about you a little down below there," and they rolled the barrel down into the water.
After that the peasants went home, and as they were entering the village, the small peasant also came quietly in, driving a flock of sheep and looking quite contented.
Then the peasants were astonished, and said: "Peasant, from whence do you come?
Have you come out of the water?"
"Yes, truly," replied the peasant, "I sank deep, deep down, until at last I got to the bottom; I pushed the bottom out of the barrel, and crept out, and there were pretty meadows on which a number of lambs were feeding, and from thence I brought this flock away with me."
Said the peasants: "Are there any more there?"
"Oh, yes," said he, "more than I could want."
Then the peasants made up their minds that they too would fetch some sheep for themselves, a flock apiece, but the mayor said: "I come first."
So they went to the water together, and just then there were some of the small fleecy clouds in the blue sky, which are called little lambs, and they were reflected in the water, whereupon the peasants cried: "We already see the sheep down below!"
The mayor pressed forward and said: "I will go down first, and look about me, and if things promise well I"ll call you."
So he jumped in; splash! went the water; it sounded as if he were calling them, and the whole crowd plunged in after him as one man.
Then the entire village was dead, and the small peasant, as sole heir, became a rich man.
A farmer had a faithful and diligent servant, who had worked hard for him three years, without having been paid any wages.
At last it came into the man"s head that he would not go on thus without pay any longer; so he went to his master, and said, "I have worked hard for you a long time, I will trust to you to give me what I deserve to have for my trouble."
The farmer was a sad miser, and knew that his man was very simple-hearted; so he took out threepence, and gave him for every year"s service a penny.
The poor fellow thought it was a great deal of money to have, and said to himself, "Why should I work hard, and live here on bad fare any longer?
I can now travel into the wide world, and make myself merry."
With that he put his money into his purse, and set out, roaming over hill and valley.
As he jogged along over the fields, singing and dancing, a little dwarf met him, and asked him what made him so merry.
"Why, what should make me down-hearted?" said he; "I am sound in health and rich in purse, what should I care for?
I have saved up my three years" earnings and have it all safe in my pocket."
"How much may it come to?" said the little man.
"Full threepence," replied the countryman.
"I wish you would give them to me," said the other; "I am very poor."
Then the man pitied him, and gave him all he had; and the little dwarf said in return, "As you have such a kind honest heart, I will grant you three wishes--one for every penny; so choose whatever you like."
Then the countryman rejoiced at his good luck, and said, "I like many things better than money: first, I will have a bow that will bring down everything I shoot at; secondly, a fiddle that will set everyone dancing that hears me play upon it; and thirdly, I should like that everyone should grant what I ask."
The dwarf said he should have his three wishes; so he gave him the bow and fiddle, and went his way.
Our honest friend journeyed on his way too; and if he was merry before, he was now ten times more so.
He had not gone far before he met an old miser: close by them stood a tree, and on the topmost twig sat a thrush singing away most joyfully.
"Oh, what a pretty bird!" said the miser; "I would give a great deal of money to have such a one."
"If that"s all," said the countryman, "I will soon bring it down."
Then he took up his bow, and down fell the thrush into the bushes at the foot of the tree.
The miser crept into the bush to find it; but directly he had got into the middle, his companion took up his fiddle and played away, and the miser began to dance and spring about, capering higher and higher in the air.
The thorns soon began to tear his clothes till they all hung in rags about him, and he himself was all scratched and wounded, so that the blood ran down.
"Oh, for heaven"s sake!" cried the miser, "Master! master! pray let the fiddle alone.
What have I done to deserve this?"
"Thou hast shaved many a poor soul close enough," said the other; "thou art only meeting thy reward": so he played up another tune.
Then the miser began to beg and promise, and offered money for his liberty; but he did not come up to the musician"s price for some time, and he danced him along brisker and brisker, and the miser bid higher and higher, till at last he offered a round hundred of florins that he had in his purse, and had just gained by cheating some poor fellow.
When the countryman saw so much money, he said, "I will agree to your proposal."
So he took the purse, put up his fiddle, and travelled on very pleased with his bargain.
Meanwhile the miser crept out of the bush half-naked and in a piteous plight, and began to ponder how he should take his revenge, and serve his late companion some trick.
At last he went to the judge, and complained that a rascal had robbed him of his money, and beaten him into the bargain; and that the fellow who did it carried a bow at his back and a fiddle hung round his neck.
Then the judge sent out his officers to bring up the accused wherever they should find him; and he was soon caught and brought up to be tried.
The miser began to tell his tale, and said he had been robbed of his money.
"No, you gave it me for playing a tune to you." said the countryman; but the judge told him that was not likely, and cut the matter short by ordering him off to the gallows.
So away he was taken; but as he stood on the steps he said, "My Lord Judge, grant me one last request."
"Anything but thy life," replied the other.
"No," said he, "I do not ask my life; only to let me play upon my fiddle for the last time."
The miser cried out, "Oh, no! no! for heaven"s sake don"t listen to him! don"t listen to him!"
But the judge said, "It is only this once, he will soon have done."
The fact was, he could not refuse the request, on account of the dwarf"s third gift.
Then the miser said, "Bind me fast, bind me fast, for pity"s sake."
But the countryman seized his fiddle, and struck up a tune, and at the first note judge, clerks, and jailer were in motion; all began capering, and no one could hold the miser.
At the second note the hangman let his prisoner go, and danced also, and by the time he had played the first bar of the tune, all were dancing together--judge, court, and miser, and all the people who had followed to look on.
At first the thing was merry and pleasant enough; but when it had gone on a while, and there seemed to be no end of playing or dancing, they began to cry out, and beg him to leave off; but he stopped not a whit the more for their entreaties, till the judge not only gave him his life, but promised to return him the hundred florins.
Then he called to the miser, and said, "Tell us now, you vagabond, where you got that gold, or I shall play on for your amusement only," "I stole it," said the miser in the presence of all the people; "I acknowledge that I stole it, and that you earned it fairly."
Then the countryman stopped his fiddle, and left the miser to take his place at the gallows.
Once upon a time, a mouse, a bird, and a sausage, entered into partnership and set up house together.
For a long time all went well; they lived in great comfort, and prospered so far as to be able to add considerably to their stores.
The bird"s duty was to fly daily into the wood and bring in fuel; the mouse fetched the water, and the sausage saw to the cooking.
When people are too well off they always begin to long for something new.
And so it came to pass, that the bird, while out one day, met a fellow bird, to whom he boastfully expatiated on the excellence of his household arrangements.
But the other bird sneered at him for being a poor simpleton, who did all the hard work, while the other two stayed at home and had a good time of it.
For, when the mouse had made the fire and fetched in the water, she could retire into her little room and rest until it was time to set the table.
The sausage had only to watch the pot to see that the food was properly cooked, and when it was near dinner-time, he just threw himself into the broth, or rolled in and out among the vegetables three or four times, and there they were, buttered, and salted, and ready to be served.
Then, when the bird came home and had laid aside his burden, they sat down to table, and when they had finished their meal, they could sleep their fill till the following morning: and that was really a very delightful life.
Influenced by those remarks, the bird next morning refused to bring in the wood, telling the others that he had been their servant long enough, and had been a fool into the bargain, and that it was now time to make a change, and to try some other way of arranging the work.
Beg and pray as the mouse and the sausage might, it was of no use; the bird remained master of the situation, and the venture had to be made.
They therefore drew lots, and it fell to the sausage to bring in the wood, to the mouse to cook, and to the bird to fetch the water.
And now what happened?
The sausage started in search of wood, the bird made the fire, and the mouse put on the pot, and then these two waited till the sausage returned with the fuel for the following day.
But the sausage remained so long away, that they became uneasy, and the bird flew out to meet him.
He had not flown far, however, when he came across a dog who, having met the sausage, had regarded him as his legitimate booty, and so seized and swallowed him.
The bird complained to the dog of this bare-faced robbery, but nothing he said was of any avail, for the dog answered that he found false credentials on the sausage, and that was the reason his life had been forfeited.
He picked up the wood, and flew sadly home, and told the mouse all he had seen and heard.
They were both very unhappy, but agreed to make the best of things and to remain with one another.
So now the bird set the table, and the mouse looked after the food and, wishing to prepare it in the same way as the sausage, by rolling in and out among the vegetables to salt and butter them, she jumped into the pot; but she stopped short long before she reached the bottom, having already parted not only with her skin and hair, but also with life.
Presently the bird came in and wanted to serve up the dinner, but he could nowhere see the cook.
In his alarm and flurry, he threw the wood here and there about the floor, called and searched, but no cook was to be found.
Then some of the wood that had been carelessly thrown down, caught fire and began to blaze.
The bird hastened to fetch some water, but his pail fell into the well, and he after it, and as he was unable to recover himself, he was drowned.
There was once a very old man, whose eyes had become dim, his ears dull of hearing, his knees trembled, and when he sat at table he could hardly hold the spoon, and spilt the broth upon the table-cloth or let it run out of his mouth.
His son and his son"s wife were disgusted at this, so the old grandfather at last had to sit in the corner behind the stove, and they gave him his food in an earthenware bowl, and not even enough of it.
And he used to look towards the table with his eyes full of tears.
Once, too, his trembling hands could not hold the bowl, and it fell to the ground and broke.
The young wife scolded him, but he said nothing and only sighed.
Then they brought him a wooden bowl for a few half-pence, out of which he had to eat.
They were once sitting thus when the little grandson of four years old began to gather together some bits of wood upon the ground.
"What are you doing there?" asked the father.
"I am making a little trough," answered the child, "for father and mother to eat out of when I am big."
The man and his wife looked at each other for a while, and presently began to cry.
Then they took the old grandfather to the table, and henceforth always let him eat with them, and likewise said nothing if he did spill a little of anything.
There was once upon a time a queen to whom God had given no children.
Every morning she went into the garden and prayed to God in heaven to bestow on her a son or a daughter.
Then an angel from heaven came to her and said: "Be at rest, you shall have a son with the power of wishing, so that whatsoever in the world he wishes for, that shall he have."
Then she went to the king, and told him the joyful tidings, and when the time was come she gave birth to a son, and the king was filled with gladness.
Every morning she went with the child to the garden where the wild beasts were kept, and washed herself there in a clear stream.
It happened once when the child was a little older, that it was lying in her arms and she fell asleep.
Then came the old cook, who knew that the child had the power of wishing, and stole it away, and he took a hen, and cut it in pieces, and dropped some of its blood on the queen"s apron and on her dress.
Then he carried the child away to a secret place, where a nurse was obliged to suckle it, and he ran to the king and accused the queen of having allowed her child to be taken from her by the wild beasts.
When the king saw the blood on her apron, he believed this, fell into such a passion that he ordered a high tower to be built, in which neither sun nor moon could be seen and had his wife put into it, and walled up.
Here she was to stay for seven years without meat or drink, and die of hunger.
But God sent two angels from heaven in the shape of white doves, which flew to her twice a day, and carried her food until the seven years were over.
The cook, however, thought to himself: "If the child has the power of wishing, and I am here, he might very easily get me into trouble."
So he left the palace and went to the boy, who was already big enough to speak, and said to him: "Wish for a beautiful palace for yourself with a garden, and all else that pertains to it."
Scarcely were the words out of the boy"s mouth, when everything was there that he had wished for.
After a while the cook said to him: "It is not well for you to be so alone, wish for a pretty girl as a companion."
Then the king"s son wished for one, and she immediately stood before him, and was more beautiful than any painter could have painted her.
The two played together, and loved each other with all their hearts, and the old cook went out hunting like a nobleman.
The thought occurred to him, however, that the king"s son might some day wish to be with his father, and thus bring him into great peril.
So he went out and took the maiden aside, and said: "Tonight when the boy is asleep, go to his bed and plunge this knife into his heart, and bring me his heart and tongue, and if you do not do it, you shall lose your life."
Thereupon he went away, and when he returned next day she had not done it, and said: "Why should I shed the blood of an innocent boy who has never harmed anyone?"
The cook once more said: "If you do not do it, it shall cost you your own life."
When he had gone away, she had a little hind brought to her, and ordered her to be killed, and took her heart and tongue, and laid them on a plate, and when she saw the old man coming, she said to the boy: "Lie down in your bed, and draw the clothes over you."
Then the wicked wretch came in and said: "Where are the boy"s heart and tongue?"
The girl reached the plate to him, but the king"s son threw off the quilt, and said: "You old sinner, why did you want to kill me?
Now will I pronounce thy sentence.
You shall become a black poodle and have a gold collar round your neck, and shall eat burning coals, till the flames burst forth from your throat."
And when he had spoken these words, the old man was changed into a poodle dog, and had a gold collar round his neck, and the cooks were ordered to bring up some live coals, and these he ate, until the flames broke forth from his throat.
The king"s son remained there a short while longer, and he thought of his mother, and wondered if she were still alive.
At length he said to the maiden: "I will go home to my own country; if you will go with me, I will provide for you."
"Ah," she replied, "the way is so long, and what shall I do in a strange land where I am unknown?"
As she did not seem quite willing, and as they could not be parted from each other, he wished that she might be changed into a beautiful pink, and took her with him.
Then he went away to his own country, and the poodle had to run after him.
He went to the tower in which his mother was confined, and as it was so high, he wished for a ladder which would reach up to the very top.
Then he mounted up and looked inside, and cried: "Beloved mother, Lady Queen, are you still alive, or are you dead?"
She answered: "I have just eaten, and am still satisfied," for she thought the angels were there.
Said he: "I am your dear son, whom the wild beasts were said to have torn from your arms; but I am alive still, and will soon set you free."
Then he descended again, and went to his father, and caused himself to be announced as a strange huntsman, and asked if he could offer him service.
The king said yes, if he was skilful and could get game for him, he should come to him, but that deer had never taken up their quarters in any part of the district or country.
Then the huntsman promised to procure as much game for him as he could possibly use at the royal table.
So he summoned all the huntsmen together, and bade them go out into the forest with him.
And he went with them and made them form a great circle, open at one end where he stationed himself, and began to wish.
Two hundred deer and more came running inside the circle at once, and the huntsmen shot them.
Then they were all placed on sixty country carts, and driven home to the king, and for once he was able to deck his table with game, after having had none at all for years.
Now the king felt great joy at this, and commanded that his entire household should eat with him next day, and made a great feast.
When they were all assembled together, he said to the huntsman: "As you are so clever, you shall sit by me."
He replied: "Lord King, your majesty must excuse me, I am a poor huntsman."
But the king insisted on it, and said: "You shall sit by me," until he did it.
Whilst he was sitting there, he thought of his dearest mother, and wished that one of the king"s principal servants would begin to speak of her, and would ask how it was faring with the queen in the tower, and if she were alive still, or had perished.
Hardly had he formed the wish than the marshal began, and said: "Your majesty, we live joyously here, but how is the queen living in the tower?
Is she still alive, or has she died?"
But the king replied: "She let my dear son be torn to pieces by wild beasts; I will not have her named."
Then the huntsman arose and said: "Gracious lord father she is alive still, and I am her son, and I was not carried away by wild beasts, but by that wretch the old cook, who tore me from her arms when she was asleep, and sprinkled her apron with the blood of a chicken."
Thereupon he took the dog with the golden collar, and said: "That is the wretch!" and caused live coals to be brought, and these the dog was compelled to devour before the sight of all, until flames burst forth from its throat.
On this the huntsman asked the king if he would like to see the dog in his true shape, and wished him back into the form of the cook, in the which he stood immediately, with his white apron, and his knife by his side.
When the king saw him he fell into a passion, and ordered him to be cast into the deepest dungeon.
Then the huntsman spoke further and said: "Father, will you see the maiden who brought me up so tenderly and who was afterwards to murder me, but did not do it, though her own life depended on it?"
The king replied: "Yes, I would like to see her."
The son said: "Most gracious father, I will show her to you in the form of a beautiful flower," and he thrust his hand into his pocket and brought forth the pink, and placed it on the royal table, and it was so beautiful that the king had never seen one to equal it.
Then the son said: "Now will I show her to you in her own form," and wished that she might become a maiden, and she stood there looking so beautiful that no painter could have made her look more so.
And the king sent two waiting-maids and two attendants into the tower, to fetch the queen and bring her to the royal table.
But when she was led in she ate nothing, and said: "The gracious and merciful God who has supported me in the tower, will soon set me free."
She lived three days more, and then died happily, and when she was buried, the two white doves which had brought her food to the tower, and were angels of heaven, followed her body and seated themselves on her grave.
The aged king ordered the cook to be torn in four pieces, but grief consumed the king"s own heart, and he soon died.
His son married the beautiful maiden whom he had brought with him as a flower in his pocket, and whether they are still alive or not, is known to God.
Two kings" sons once upon a time went into the world to seek their fortunes; but they soon fell into a wasteful foolish way of living, so that they could not return home again.
Then their brother, who was a little insignificant dwarf, went out to seek for his brothers: but when he had found them they only laughed at him, to think that he, who was so young and simple, should try to travel through the world, when they, who were so much wiser, had been unable to get on.
However, they all set out on their journey together, and came at last to an anthill.
The two elder brothers would have pulled it down, in order to see how the poor ants in their fright would run about and carry off their eggs.
But the little dwarf said, "Let the poor things enjoy themselves, I will not suffer you to trouble them."
So on they went, and came to a lake where many many ducks were swimming about.
The two brothers wanted to catch two, and roast them.
But the dwarf said, "Let the poor things enjoy themselves, you shall not kill them."
Next they came to a bees"-nest in a hollow tree, and there was so much honey that it ran down the trunk; and the two brothers wanted to light a fire under the tree and kill the bees, so as to get their honey.
But the dwarf held them back, and said, "Let the pretty insects enjoy themselves, I cannot let you burn them."
At length the three brothers came to a castle: and as they passed by the stables they saw fine horses standing there, but all were of marble, and no man was to be seen.
Then they went through all the rooms, till they came to a door on which were three locks: but in the middle of the door was a wicket, so that they could look into the next room.
There they saw a little grey old man sitting at a table; and they called to him once or twice, but he did not hear: however, they called a third time, and then he rose and came out to them.
He said nothing, but took hold of them and led them to a beautiful table covered with all sorts of good things: and when they had eaten and drunk, he showed each of them to a bed-chamber.
The next morning he came to the eldest and took him to a marble table, where there were three tablets, containing an account of the means by which the castle might be disenchanted.
The first tablet said: "In the wood, under the moss, lie the thousand pearls belonging to the king"s daughter; they must all be found: and if one be missing by set of sun, he who seeks them will be turned into marble."
The eldest brother set out, and sought for the pearls the whole day: but the evening came, and he had not found the first hundred: so he was turned into stone as the tablet had foretold.
The next day the second brother undertook the task; but he succeeded no better than the first; for he could only find the second hundred of the pearls; and therefore he too was turned into stone.
At last came the little dwarf"s turn; and he looked in the moss; but it was so hard to find the pearls, and the job was so tiresome!--so he sat down upon a stone and cried.
And as he sat there, the king of the ants (whose life he had saved) came to help him, with five thousand ants; and it was not long before they had found all the pearls and laid them in a heap.
The second tablet said: "The key of the princess"s bed-chamber must be fished up out of the lake."
And as the dwarf came to the brink of it, he saw the two ducks whose lives he had saved swimming about; and they dived down and soon brought in the key from the bottom.
The third task was the hardest.
It was to choose out the youngest and the best of the king"s three daughters.
Now they were all beautiful, and all exactly alike: but he was told that the eldest had eaten a piece of sugar, the next some sweet syrup, and the youngest a spoonful of honey; so he was to guess which it was that had eaten the honey.
Then came the queen of the bees, who had been saved by the little dwarf from the fire, and she tried the lips of all three; but at last she sat upon the lips of the one that had eaten the honey: and so the dwarf knew which was the youngest.
Thus the spell was broken, and all who had been turned into stones awoke, and took their proper forms.
And the dwarf married the youngest and the best of the princesses, and was king after her father"s death; but his two brothers married the other two sisters.
There was once a queen who had a little daughter, still too young to run alone.
One day the child was very troublesome, and the mother could not quiet it, do what she would.
She grew impatient, and seeing the ravens flying round the castle, she opened the window, and said: "I wish you were a raven and would fly away, then I should have a little peace."
Scarcely were the words out of her mouth, when the child in her arms was turned into a raven, and flew away from her through the open window.
The bird took its flight to a dark wood and remained there for a long time, and meanwhile the parents could hear nothing of their child.
Long after this, a man was making his way through the wood when he heard a raven calling, and he followed the sound of the voice.
As he drew near, the raven said, "I am by birth a king"s daughter, but am now under the spell of some enchantment; you can, however, set me free."
"What am I to do?" he asked.
She replied, "Go farther into the wood until you come to a house, wherein lives an old woman; she will offer you food and drink, but you must not take of either; if you do, you will fall into a deep sleep, and will not be able to help me.
In the garden behind the house is a large tan-heap, and on that you must stand and watch for me.
I shall drive there in my carriage at two o"clock in the afternoon for three successive days; the first day it will be drawn by four white, the second by four chestnut, and the last by four black horses; but if you fail to keep awake and I find you sleeping, I shall not be set free."
The man promised to do all that she wished, but the raven said, "Alas!
I know even now that you will take something from the woman and be unable to save me."
The man assured her again that he would on no account touch a thing to eat or drink.
When he came to the house and went inside, the old woman met him, and said, "Poor man! how tired you are!
Come in and rest and let me give you something to eat and drink."
"No," answered the man, "I will neither eat not drink."
But she would not leave him alone, and urged him saying, "If you will not eat anything, at least you might take a draught of wine; one drink counts for nothing," and at last he allowed himself to be persuaded, and drank.
As it drew towards the appointed hour, he went outside into the garden and mounted the tan-heap to await the raven.
Suddenly a feeling of fatigue came over him, and unable to resist it, he lay down for a little while, fully determined, however, to keep awake; but in another minute his eyes closed of their own accord, and he fell into such a deep sleep, that all the noises in the world would not have awakened him.
At two o"clock the raven came driving along, drawn by her four white horses; but even before she reached the spot, she said to herself, sighing, "I know he has fallen asleep."
When she entered the garden, there she found him as she had feared, lying on the tan-heap, fast asleep.
She got out of her carriage and went to him; she called him and shook him, but it was all in vain, he still continued sleeping.
The next day at noon, the old woman came to him again with food and drink which he at first refused.
At last, overcome by her persistent entreaties that he would take something, he lifted the glass and drank again.
Towards two o"clock he went into the garden and on to the tan-heap to watch for the raven.
He had not been there long before he began to feel so tired that his limbs seemed hardly able to support him, and he could not stand upright any longer; so again he lay down and fell fast asleep.
As the raven drove along her four chestnut horses, she said sorrowfully to herself, "I know he has fallen asleep."
She went as before to look for him, but he slept, and it was impossible to awaken him.
The following day the old woman said to him, "What is this?
You are not eating or drinking anything, do you want to kill yourself?"
He answered, "I may not and will not either eat or drink."
But she put down the dish of food and the glass of wine in front of him, and when he smelt the wine, he was unable to resist the temptation, and took a deep draught.
When the hour came round again he went as usual on to the tan-heap in the garden to await the king"s daughter, but he felt even more overcome with weariness than on the two previous days, and throwing himself down, he slept like a log.
At two o"clock the raven could be seen approaching, and this time her coachman and everything about her, as well as her horses, were black.
She was sadder than ever as she drove along, and said mournfully, "I know he has fallen asleep, and will not be able to set me free."
She found him sleeping heavily, and all her efforts to awaken him were of no avail.
Then she placed beside him a loaf, and some meat, and a flask of wine, of such a kind, that however much he took of them, they would never grow less.
After that she drew a gold ring, on which her name was engraved, off her finger, and put it upon one of his.
Finally, she laid a letter near him, in which, after giving him particulars of the food and drink she had left for him, she finished with the following words: "I see that as long as you remain here you will never be able to set me free; if, however, you still wish to do so, come to the golden castle of Stromberg; this is well within your power to accomplish."
She then returned to her carriage and drove to the golden castle of Stromberg.
When the man awoke and found that he had been sleeping, he was grieved at heart, and said, "She has no doubt been here and driven away again, and it is now too late for me to save her."
Then his eyes fell on the things which were lying beside him; he read the letter, and knew from it all that had happened.
He rose up without delay, eager to start on his way and to reach the castle of Stromberg, but he had no idea in which direction he ought to go.
He travelled about a long time in search of it and came at last to a dark forest, through which he went on walking for fourteen days and still could not find a way out.
Once more the night came on, and worn out he lay down under a bush and fell asleep.
Again the next day he pursued his way through the forest, and that evening, thinking to rest again, he lay down as before, but he heard such a howling and wailing that he found it impossible to sleep.
He waited till it was darker and people had begun to light up their houses, and then seeing a little glimmer ahead of him, he went towards it.
He found that the light came from a house which looked smaller than it really was, from the contrast of its height with that of an immense giant who stood in front of it.
He thought to himself, "If the giant sees me going in, my life will not be worth much."
However, after a while he summoned up courage and went forward.
When the giant saw him, he called out, "It is lucky for that you have come, for I have not had anything to eat for a long time.
I can have you now for my supper."
"I would rather you let that alone," said the man, "for I do not willingly give myself up to be eaten; if you are wanting food I have enough to satisfy your hunger."
"If that is so," replied the giant, "I will leave you in peace; I only thought of eating you because I had nothing else."
So they went indoors together and sat down, and the man brought out the bread, meat, and wine, which although he had eaten and drunk of them, were still unconsumed.
The giant was pleased with the good cheer, and ate and drank to his heart"s content.
When he had finished his supper the man asked him if he could direct him to the castle of Stromberg.
The giant said, "I will look on my map; on it are marked all the towns, villages, and houses."
So he fetched his map, and looked for the castle, but could not find it.
"Never mind," he said, "I have larger maps upstairs in the cupboard, we will look on those," but they searched in vain, for the castle was not marked even on these.
The man now thought he should like to continue his journey, but the giant begged him to remain for a day or two longer until the return of his brother, who was away in search of provisions.
When the brother came home, they asked him about the castle of Stromberg, and he told them he would look on his own maps as soon as he had eaten and appeased his hunger.
Accordingly, when he had finished his supper, they all went up together to his room and looked through his maps, but the castle was not to be found.
Then he fetched other older maps, and they went on looking for the castle until at last they found it, but it was many thousand miles away.
"How shall I be able to get there?" asked the man.
"I have two hours to spare," said the giant, "and I will carry you into the neighbourhood of the castle; I must then return to look after the child who is in our care."
The giant, thereupon, carried the man to within about a hundred leagues of the castle, where he left him, saying, "You will be able to walk the remainder of the way yourself."
The man journeyed on day and night till he reached the golden castle of Stromberg.
He found it situated, however, on a glass mountain, and looking up from the foot he saw the enchanted maiden drive round her castle and then go inside.
He was overjoyed to see her, and longed to get to the top of the mountain, but the sides were so slippery that every time he attempted to climb he fell back again.
When he saw that it was impossible to reach her, he was greatly grieved, and said to himself, "I will remain here and wait for her," so he built himself a little hut, and there he sat and watched for a whole year, and every day he saw the king"s daughter driving round her castle, but still was unable to get nearer to her.
Looking out from his hut one day he saw three robbers fighting and he called out to them, "God be with you."
They stopped when they heard the call, but looking round and seeing nobody, they went on again with their fighting, which now became more furious.
"God be with you," he cried again, and again they paused and looked about, but seeing no one went back to their fighting.
A third time he called out, "God be with you," and then thinking he should like to know the cause of dispute between the three men, he went out and asked them why they were fighting so angrily with one another.
One of them said that he had found a stick, and that he had but to strike it against any door through which he wished to pass, and it immediately flew open.
Another told him that he had found a cloak which rendered its wearer invisible; and the third had caught a horse which would carry its rider over any obstacle, and even up the glass mountain.
They had been unable to decide whether they would keep together and have the things in common, or whether they would separate.
On hearing this, the man said, "I will give you something in exchange for those three things; not money, for that I have not got, but something that is of far more value.
I must first, however, prove whether all you have told me about your three things is true."
The robbers, therefore, made him get on the horse, and handed him the stick and the cloak, and when he had put this round him he was no longer visible.
Then he fell upon them with the stick and beat them one after another, crying, "There, you idle vagabonds, you have got what you deserve; are you satisfied now!"
After this he rode up the glass mountain.
When he reached the gate of the castle, he found it closed, but he gave it a blow with his stick, and it flew wide open at once and he passed through.
He mounted the steps and entered the room where the maiden was sitting, with a golden goblet full of wine in front of her.
She could not see him for he still wore his cloak.
He took the ring which she had given him off his finger, and threw it into the goblet, so that it rang as it touched the bottom.
"That is my own ring," she exclaimed, "and if that is so the man must also be here who is coming to set me free."
She sought for him about the castle, but could find him nowhere.
Meanwhile he had gone outside again and mounted his horse and thrown off the cloak.
When therefore she came to the castle gate she saw him, and cried aloud for joy.
Then he dismounted and took her in his arms; and she kissed him, and said, "Now you have indeed set me free, and tomorrow we will celebrate our marriage."
There was once a miller who had one beautiful daughter, and as she was grown up, he was anxious that she should be well married and provided for.
He said to himself, "I will give her to the first suitable man who comes and asks for her hand."
Not long after a suitor appeared, and as he appeared to be very rich and the miller could see nothing in him with which to find fault, he betrothed his daughter to him.
But the girl did not care for the man as a girl ought to care for her betrothed husband.
She did not feel that she could trust him, and she could not look at him nor think of him without an inward shudder.
One day he said to her, "You have not yet paid me a visit, although we have been betrothed for some time."
"I do not know where your house is," she answered.
"My house is out there in the dark forest," he said.
She tried to excuse herself by saying that she would not be able to find the way thither.
Her betrothed only replied, "You must come and see me next Sunday; I have already invited guests for that day, and that you may not mistake the way, I will strew ashes along the path."
When Sunday came, and it was time for the girl to start, a feeling of dread came over her which she could not explain, and that she might be able to find her path again, she filled her pockets with peas and lentils to sprinkle on the ground as she went along.
On reaching the entrance to the forest she found the path strewed with ashes, and these she followed, throwing down some peas on either side of her at every step she took.
She walked the whole day until she came to the deepest, darkest part of the forest.
There she saw a lonely house, looking so grim and mysterious, that it did not please her at all.
She stepped inside, but not a soul was to be seen, and a great silence reigned throughout.
Suddenly a voice cried:
"Turn back, turn back, young maiden fair, Linger not in this murderers" lair."
The girl looked up and saw that the voice came from a bird hanging in a cage on the wall.
Again it cried:
"Turn back, turn back, young maiden fair, Linger not in this murderers" lair."
The girl passed on, going from room to room of the house, but they were all empty, and still she saw no one.
At last she came to the cellar, and there sat a very, very old woman, who could not keep her head from shaking.
"Can you tell me," asked the girl, "if my betrothed husband lives here?"
"Ah, you poor child," answered the old woman, "what a place for you to come to!
This is a murderers" den.
You think yourself a promised bride, and that your marriage will soon take place, but it is with death that you will keep your marriage feast.
Look, do you see that large cauldron of water which I am obliged to keep on the fire!
As soon as they have you in their power they will kill you without mercy, and cook and eat you, for they are eaters of men.
If I did not take pity on you and save you, you would be lost."
Thereupon the old woman led her behind a large cask, which quite hid her from view.
"Keep as still as a mouse," she said; "do not move or speak, or it will be all over with you.
Tonight, when the robbers are all asleep, we will flee together.
I have long been waiting for an opportunity to escape."
The words were hardly out of her mouth when the godless crew returned, dragging another young girl along with them.
They were all drunk, and paid no heed to her cries and lamentations.
They gave her wine to drink, three glasses full, one of white wine, one of red, and one of yellow, and with that her heart gave way and she died.
Then they tore of her dainty clothing, laid her on a table, and cut her beautiful body into pieces, and sprinkled salt upon it.
The poor betrothed girl crouched trembling and shuddering behind the cask, for she saw what a terrible fate had been intended for her by the robbers.
One of them now noticed a gold ring still remaining on the little finger of the murdered girl, and as he could not draw it off easily, he took a hatchet and cut off the finger; but the finger sprang into the air, and fell behind the cask into the lap of the girl who was hiding there.
The robber took a light and began looking for it, but he could not find it.
"Have you looked behind the large cask?" said one of the others.
But the old woman called out, "Come and eat your suppers, and let the thing be till tomorrow; the finger won"t run away."
"The old woman is right," said the robbers, and they ceased looking for the finger and sat down.
The old woman then mixed a sleeping draught with their wine, and before long they were all lying on the floor of the cellar, fast asleep and snoring.
As soon as the girl was assured of this, she came from behind the cask.
She was obliged to step over the bodies of the sleepers, who were lying close together, and every moment she was filled with renewed dread lest she should awaken them.
But God helped her, so that she passed safely over them, and then she and the old woman went upstairs, opened the door, and hastened as fast as they could from the murderers" den.
They found the ashes scattered by the wind, but the peas and lentils had sprouted, and grown sufficiently above the ground, to guide them in the moonlight along the path.
All night long they walked, and it was morning before they reached the mill.
Then the girl told her father all that had happened.
The day came that had been fixed for the marriage.
The bridegroom arrived and also a large company of guests, for the miller had taken care to invite all his friends and relations.
As they sat at the feast, each guest in turn was asked to tell a tale; the bride sat still and did not say a word.
"And you, my love," said the bridegroom, turning to her, "is there no tale you know?
Tell us something."
"I will tell you a dream, then," said the bride.
"I went alone through a forest and came at last to a house; not a soul could I find within, but a bird that was hanging in a cage on the wall cried:
"Turn back, turn back, young maiden fair, Linger not in this murderers" lair."
and again a second time it said these words."
"My darling, this is only a dream."
"I went on through the house from room to room, but they were all empty, and everything was so grim and mysterious.
At last I went down to the cellar, and there sat a very, very old woman, who could not keep her head still.
I asked her if my betrothed lived here, and she answered, "Ah, you poor child, you are come to a murderers" den; your betrothed does indeed live here, but he will kill you without mercy and afterwards cook and eat you.""
"My darling, this is only a dream."
"The old woman hid me behind a large cask, and scarcely had she done this when the robbers returned home, dragging a young girl along with them.
They gave her three kinds of wine to drink, white, red, and yellow, and with that she died."
"My darling, this is only a dream."
"Then they tore off her dainty clothing, and cut her beautiful body into pieces and sprinkled salt upon it."
"My darling, this is only a dream."
"And one of the robbers saw that there was a gold ring still left on her finger, and as it was difficult to draw off, he took a hatchet and cut off her finger; but the finger sprang into the air and fell behind the great cask into my lap.
And here is the finger with the ring." and with these words the bride drew forth the finger and shewed it to the assembled guests.
The bridegroom, who during this recital had grown deadly pale, up and tried to escape, but the guests seized him and held him fast.
They delivered him up to justice, and he and all his murderous band were condemned to death for their wicked deeds.
As a merry young huntsman was once going briskly along through a wood, there came up a little old woman, and said to him, "Good day, good day; you seem merry enough, but I am hungry and thirsty; do pray give me something to eat."
The huntsman took pity on her, and put his hand in his pocket and gave her what he had.
Then he wanted to go his way; but she took hold of him, and said, "Listen, my friend, to what I am going to tell you; I will reward you for your kindness; go your way, and after a little time you will come to a tree where you will see nine birds sitting on a cloak.
Shoot into the midst of them, and one will fall down dead: the cloak will fall too; take it, it is a wishing-cloak, and when you wear it you will find yourself at any place where you may wish to be.
Cut open the dead bird, take out its heart and keep it, and you will find a piece of gold under your pillow every morning when you rise.
It is the bird"s heart that will bring you this good luck."
The huntsman thanked her, and thought to himself, "If all this does happen, it will be a fine thing for me."
When he had gone a hundred steps or so, he heard a screaming and chirping in the branches over him, and looked up and saw a flock of birds pulling a cloak with their bills and feet; screaming, fighting, and tugging at each other as if each wished to have it himself.
"Well," said the huntsman, "this is wonderful; this happens just as the old woman said"; then he shot into the midst of them so that their feathers flew all about.
Off went the flock chattering away; but one fell down dead, and the cloak with it.
Then the huntsman did as the old woman told him, cut open the bird, took out the heart, and carried the cloak home with him.
The next morning when he awoke he lifted up his pillow, and there lay the piece of gold glittering underneath; the same happened next day, and indeed every day when he arose.
He heaped up a great deal of gold, and at last thought to himself, "Of what use is this gold to me whilst I am at home?
I will go out into the world and look about me."
Then he took leave of his friends, and hung his bag and bow about his neck, and went his way.
It so happened that his road one day led through a thick wood, at the end of which was a large castle in a green meadow, and at one of the windows stood an old woman with a very beautiful young lady by her side looking about them.
Now the old woman was a witch, and said to the young lady, "There is a young man coming out of the wood who carries a wonderful prize; we must get it away from him, my dear child, for it is more fit for us than for him.
He has a bird"s heart that brings a piece of gold under his pillow every morning."
Meantime the huntsman came nearer and looked at the lady, and said to himself, "I have been travelling so long that I should like to go into this castle and rest myself, for I have money enough to pay for anything I want"; but the real reason was, that he wanted to see more of the beautiful lady.
Then he went into the house, and was welcomed kindly; and it was not long before he was so much in love that he thought of nothing else but looking at the lady"s eyes, and doing everything that she wished.
Then the old woman said, "Now is the time for getting the bird"s heart."
So the lady stole it away, and he never found any more gold under his pillow, for it lay now under the young lady"s, and the old woman took it away every morning; but he was so much in love that he never missed his prize.
"Well," said the old witch, "we have got the bird"s heart, but not the wishing-cloak yet, and that we must also get."
"Let us leave him that," said the young lady; "he has already lost his wealth."
Then the witch was very angry, and said, "Such a cloak is a very rare and wonderful thing, and I must and will have it."
So she did as the old woman told her, and set herself at the window, and looked about the country and seemed very sorrowful; then the huntsman said, "What makes you so sad?"
"Alas! dear sir," said she, "yonder lies the granite rock where all the costly diamonds grow, and I want so much to go there, that whenever I think of it I cannot help being sorrowful, for who can reach it? only the birds and the flies--man cannot."
"If that"s all your grief," said the huntsman, "I"ll take there with all my heart"; so he drew her under his cloak, and the moment he wished to be on the granite mountain they were both there.
The diamonds glittered so on all sides that they were delighted with the sight and picked up the finest.
But the old witch made a deep sleep come upon him, and he said to the young lady, "Let us sit down and rest ourselves a little, I am so tired that I cannot stand any longer."
So they sat down, and he laid his head in her lap and fell asleep; and whilst he was sleeping on she took the cloak from his shoulders, hung it on her own, picked up the diamonds, and wished herself home again.
When he awoke and found that his lady had tricked him, and left him alone on the wild rock, he said, "Alas! what roguery there is in the world!" and there he sat in great grief and fear, not knowing what to do.
Now this rock belonged to fierce giants who lived upon it; and as he saw three of them striding about, he thought to himself, "I can only save myself by feigning to be asleep"; so he laid himself down as if he were in a sound sleep.
When the giants came up to him, the first pushed him with his foot, and said, "What worm is this that lies here curled up?"
"Tread upon him and kill him," said the second.
"It"s not worth the trouble," said the third; "let him live, he"ll go climbing higher up the mountain, and some cloud will come rolling and carry him away."
And they passed on.
But the huntsman had heard all they said; and as soon as they were gone, he climbed to the top of the mountain, and when he had sat there a short time a cloud came rolling around him, and caught him in a whirlwind and bore him along for some time, till it settled in a garden, and he fell quite gently to the ground amongst the greens and cabbages.
Then he looked around him, and said, "I wish I had something to eat, if not I shall be worse off than before; for here I see neither apples nor pears, nor any kind of fruits, nothing but vegetables."
At last he thought to himself, "I can eat salad, it will refresh and strengthen me."
So he picked out a fine head and ate of it; but scarcely had he swallowed two bites when he felt himself quite changed, and saw with horror that he was turned into an ass.
However, he still felt very hungry, and the salad tasted very nice; so he ate on till he came to another kind of salad, and scarcely had he tasted it when he felt another change come over him, and soon saw that he was lucky enough to have found his old shape again.
Then he laid himself down and slept off a little of his weariness; and when he awoke the next morning he broke off a head both of the good and the bad salad, and thought to himself, "This will help me to my fortune again, and enable me to pay off some folks for their treachery."
So he went away to try and find the castle of his friends; and after wandering about a few days he luckily found it.
Then he stained his face all over brown, so that even his mother would not have known him, and went into the castle and asked for a lodging; "I am so tired," said he, "that I can go no farther."
"Countryman," said the witch, "who are you? and what is your business?"
"I am," said he, "a messenger sent by the king to find the finest salad that grows under the sun.
I have been lucky enough to find it, and have brought it with me; but the heat of the sun scorches so that it begins to wither, and I don"t know that I can carry it farther."
When the witch and the young lady heard of his beautiful salad, they longed to taste it, and said, "Dear countryman, let us just taste it."
"To be sure," answered he; "I have two heads of it with me, and will give you one"; so he opened his bag and gave them the bad.
Then the witch herself took it into the kitchen to be dressed; and when it was ready she could not wait till it was carried up, but took a few leaves immediately and put them in her mouth, and scarcely were they swallowed when she lost her own form and ran braying down into the court in the form of an ass.
Now the servant-maid came into the kitchen, and seeing the salad ready, was going to carry it up; but on the way she too felt a wish to taste it as the old woman had done, and ate some leaves; so she also was turned into an ass and ran after the other, letting the dish with the salad fall on the ground.
The messenger sat all this time with the beautiful young lady, and as nobody came with the salad and she longed to taste it, she said, "I don"t know where the salad can be."
Then he thought something must have happened, and said, "I will go into the kitchen and see."
And as he went he saw two asses in the court running about, and the salad lying on the ground.
"All right!" said he; "those two have had their share."
Then he took up the rest of the leaves, laid them on the dish and brought them to the young lady, saying, "I bring you the dish myself that you may not wait any longer."
So she ate of it, and like the others ran off into the court braying away.
Then the huntsman washed his face and went into the court that they might know him.
"Now you shall be paid for your roguery," said he; and tied them all three to a rope and took them along with him till he came to a mill and knocked at the window.
"What"s the matter?" said the miller.
"I have three tiresome beasts here," said the other; "if you will take them, give them food and room, and treat them as I tell you, I will pay you whatever you ask."
"With all my heart," said the miller; "but how shall I treat them?"
Then the huntsman said, "Give the old one stripes three times a day and hay once; give the next (who was the servant-maid) stripes once a day and hay three times; and give the youngest (who was the beautiful lady) hay three times a day and no stripes": for he could not find it in his heart to have her beaten.
After this he went back to the castle, where he found everything he wanted.
Some days after, the miller came to him and told him that the old ass was dead; "The other two," said he, "are alive and eat, but are so sorrowful that they cannot last long."
Then the huntsman pitied them, and told the miller to drive them back to him, and when they came, he gave them some of the good salad to eat.
And the beautiful young lady fell upon her knees before him, and said, "O dearest huntsman! forgive me all the ill I have done you; my mother forced me to it, it was against my will, for I always loved you very much.
Your wishing-cloak hangs up in the closet, and as for the bird"s heart, I will give it you too."
But he said, "Keep it, it will be just the same thing, for I mean to make you my wife."
So they were married, and lived together very happily till they died.
There was once a man who had seven sons, and last of all one daughter.
Although the little girl was very pretty, she was so weak and small that they thought she could not live; but they said she should at once be christened.
So the father sent one of his sons in haste to the spring to get some water, but the other six ran with him.
Each wanted to be first at drawing the water, and so they were in such a hurry that all let their pitchers fall into the well, and they stood very foolishly looking at one another, and did not know what to do, for none dared go home.
In the meantime the father was uneasy, and could not tell what made the young men stay so long.
"Surely," said he, "the whole seven must have forgotten themselves over some game of play"; and when he had waited still longer and they yet did not come, he flew into a rage and wished them all turned into ravens.
Scarcely had he spoken these words when he heard a croaking over his head, and looked up and saw seven ravens as black as coal flying round and round.
Sorry as he was to see his wish so fulfilled, he did not know how what was done could be undone, and comforted himself as well as he could for the loss of his seven sons with his dear little daughter, who soon became stronger and every day more beautiful.
For a long time she did not know that she had ever had any brothers; for her father and mother took care not to speak of them before her: but one day by chance she heard the people about her speak of them.
"Yes," said they, "she is beautiful indeed, but still "tis a pity that her brothers should have been lost for her sake."
Then she was much grieved, and went to her father and mother, and asked if she had any brothers, and what had become of them.
So they dared no longer hide the truth from her, but said it was the will of Heaven, and that her birth was only the innocent cause of it; but the little girl mourned sadly about it every day, and thought herself bound to do all she could to bring her brothers back; and she had neither rest nor ease, till at length one day she stole away, and set out into the wide world to find her brothers, wherever they might be, and free them, whatever it might cost her.
She took nothing with her but a little ring which her father and mother had given her, a loaf of bread in case she should be hungry, a little pitcher of water in case she should be thirsty, and a little stool to rest upon when she should be weary.
Thus she went on and on, and journeyed till she came to the world"s end; then she came to the sun, but the sun looked much too hot and fiery; so she ran away quickly to the moon, but the moon was cold and chilly, and said, "I smell flesh and blood this way!" so she took herself away in a hurry and came to the stars, and the stars were friendly and kind to her, and each star sat upon his own little stool; but the morning star rose up and gave her a little piece of wood, and said, "If you have not this little piece of wood, you cannot unlock the castle that stands on the glass-mountain, and there your brothers live."
The little girl took the piece of wood, rolled it up in a little cloth, and went on again until she came to the glass-mountain, and found the door shut.
Then she felt for the little piece of wood; but when she unwrapped the cloth it was not there, and she saw she had lost the gift of the good stars.
What was to be done?
She wanted to save her brothers, and had no key of the castle of the glass-mountain; so this faithful little sister took a knife out of her pocket and cut off her little finger, that was just the size of the piece of wood she had lost, and put it in the door and opened it.
As she went in, a little dwarf came up to her, and said, "What are you seeking for?"
"I seek for my brothers, the seven ravens," answered she.
Then the dwarf said, "My masters are not at home; but if you will wait till they come, pray step in."
Now the little dwarf was getting their dinner ready, and he brought their food upon seven little plates, and their drink in seven little glasses, and set them upon the table, and out of each little plate their sister ate a small piece, and out of each little glass she drank a small drop; but she let the ring that she had brought with her fall into the last glass.
On a sudden she heard a fluttering and croaking in the air, and the dwarf said, "Here come my masters."
When they came in, they wanted to eat and drink, and looked for their little plates and glasses.
Then said one after the other,
"Who has eaten from my little plate?
And who has been drinking out of my little glass?"
"Caw!
Caw! well I ween Mortal lips have this way been."
When the seventh came to the bottom of his glass, and found there the ring, he looked at it, and knew that it was his father"s and mother"s, and said, "O that our little sister would but come! then we should be free."
When the little girl heard this (for she stood behind the door all the time and listened), she ran forward, and in an instant all the ravens took their right form again; and all hugged and kissed each other, and went merrily home.
A certain father had two sons, the elder of who was smart and sensible, and could do everything, but the younger was stupid and could neither learn nor understand anything, and when people saw him they said: "There"s a fellow who will give his father some trouble!"
When anything had to be done, it was always the elder who was forced to do it; but if his father bade him fetch anything when it was late, or in the night-time, and the way led through the churchyard, or any other dismal place, he answered: "Oh, no father, I"ll not go there, it makes me shudder!" for he was afraid.
Or when stories were told by the fire at night which made the flesh creep, the listeners sometimes said: "Oh, it makes us shudder!"
The younger sat in a corner and listened with the rest of them, and could not imagine what they could mean.
"They are always saying: "It makes me shudder, it makes me shudder!"
It does not make me shudder," thought he.
"That, too, must be an art of which I understand nothing!"
Now it came to pass that his father said to him one day: "Hearken to me, you fellow in the corner there, you are growing tall and strong, and you too must learn something by which you can earn your bread.
Look how your brother works, but you do not even earn your salt."
"Well, father," he replied, "I am quite willing to learn something-- indeed, if it could but be managed, I should like to learn how to shudder.
I don"t understand that at all yet."
The elder brother smiled when he heard that, and thought to himself: "Goodness, what a blockhead that brother of mine is!
He will never be good for anything as long as he lives!
He who wants to be a sickle must bend himself betimes."
The father sighed, and answered him: "You shall soon learn what it is to shudder, but you will not earn your bread by that."
Soon after this the sexton came to the house on a visit, and the father bewailed his trouble, and told him how his younger son was so backward in every respect that he knew nothing and learnt nothing.
"Just think," said he, "when I asked him how he was going to earn his bread, he actually wanted to learn to shudder."
"If that be all," replied the sexton, "he can learn that with me.
Send him to me, and I will soon polish him."
The father was glad to do it, for he thought: "It will train the boy a little."
The sexton therefore took him into his house, and he had to ring the church bell.
After a day or two, the sexton awoke him at midnight, and bade him arise and go up into the church tower and ring the bell.
"You shall soon learn what shuddering is," thought he, and secretly went there before him; and when the boy was at the top of the tower and turned round, and was just going to take hold of the bell rope, he saw a white figure standing on the stairs opposite the sounding hole.
"Who is there?" cried he, but the figure made no reply, and did not move or stir.
"Give an answer," cried the boy, "or take yourself off, you have no business here at night."
The sexton, however, remained standing motionless that the boy might think he was a ghost.
The boy cried a second time: "What do you want here?--speak if you are an honest fellow, or I will throw you down the steps!"
The sexton thought: "He can"t mean to be as bad as his words," uttered no sound and stood as if he were made of stone.
Then the boy called to him for the third time, and as that was also to no purpose, he ran against him and pushed the ghost down the stairs, so that it fell down the ten steps and remained lying there in a corner.
Thereupon he rang the bell, went home, and without saying a word went to bed, and fell asleep.
The sexton"s wife waited a long time for her husband, but he did not come back.
At length she became uneasy, and wakened the boy, and asked: "Do you know where my husband is?
He climbed up the tower before you did."
"No, I don"t know," replied the boy, "but someone was standing by the sounding hole on the other side of the steps, and as he would neither gave an answer nor go away, I took him for a scoundrel, and threw him downstairs.
Just go there and you will see if it was he.
I should be sorry if it were."
The woman ran away and found her husband, who was lying moaning in the corner, and had broken his leg.
She carried him down, and then with loud screams she hastened to the boy"s father, "Your boy," cried she, "has been the cause of a great misfortune!
He has thrown my husband down the steps so that he broke his leg.
Take the good-for-nothing fellow out of our house."
The father was terrified, and ran thither and scolded the boy.
"What wicked tricks are these?" said he.
"The devil must have put them into your head."
"Father," he replied, "do listen to me.
I am quite innocent.
He was standing there by night like one intent on doing evil.
I did not know who it was, and I entreated him three times either to speak or to go away."
"Ah," said the father, "I have nothing but unhappiness with you.
Go out of my sight.
I will see you no more."
"Yes, father, right willingly, wait only until it is day.
Then will I go forth and learn how to shudder, and then I shall, at any rate, understand one art which will support me."
"Learn what you will," spoke the father, "it is all the same to me.
Here are fifty talers for you.
Take these and go into the wide world, and tell no one from whence you come, and who is your father, for I have reason to be ashamed of you."
"Yes, father, it shall be as you will.
If you desire nothing more than that, I can easily keep it in mind."
When the day dawned, therefore, the boy put his fifty talers into his pocket, and went forth on the great highway, and continually said to himself: "If I could but shudder!
If I could but shudder!"
Then a man approached who heard this conversation which the youth was holding with himself, and when they had walked a little farther to where they could see the gallows, the man said to him: "Look, there is the tree where seven men have married the ropemaker"s daughter, and are now learning how to fly.
Sit down beneath it, and wait till night comes, and you will soon learn how to shudder."
"If that is all that is wanted," answered the youth, "it is easily done; but if I learn how to shudder as fast as that, you shall have my fifty talers.
Just come back to me early in the morning."
Then the youth went to the gallows, sat down beneath it, and waited till evening came.
And as he was cold, he lighted himself a fire, but at midnight the wind blew so sharply that in spite of his fire, he could not get warm.
And as the wind knocked the hanged men against each other, and they moved backwards and forwards, he thought to himself: "If you shiver below by the fire, how those up above must freeze and suffer!"
And as he felt pity for them, he raised the ladder, and climbed up, unbound one of them after the other, and brought down all seven.
Then he stoked the fire, blew it, and set them all round it to warm themselves.
But they sat there and did not stir, and the fire caught their clothes.
So he said: "Take care, or I will hang you up again."
The dead men, however, did not hear, but were quite silent, and let their rags go on burning.
At this he grew angry, and said: "If you will not take care, I cannot help you, I will not be burnt with you," and he hung them up again each in his turn.
Then he sat down by his fire and fell asleep, and the next morning the man came to him and wanted to have the fifty talers, and said: "Well do you know how to shudder?"
"No," answered he, "how should I know?
Those fellows up there did not open their mouths, and were so stupid that they let the few old rags which they had on their bodies get burnt."
Then the man saw that he would not get the fifty talers that day, and went away saying: "Such a youth has never come my way before."
The youth likewise went his way, and once more began to mutter to himself: "Ah, if I could but shudder!
Ah, if I could but shudder!"
A waggoner who was striding behind him heard this and asked: "Who are you?"
"I don"t know," answered the youth.
Then the waggoner asked: "From whence do you come?"
"I know not."
"Who is your father?"
"That I may not tell you."
"What is it that you are always muttering between your teeth?"
"Ah," replied the youth, "I do so wish I could shudder, but no one can teach me how."
"Enough of your foolish chatter," said the waggoner.
"Come, go with me, I will see about a place for you."
The youth went with the waggoner, and in the evening they arrived at an inn where they wished to pass the night.
Then at the entrance of the parlour the youth again said quite loudly: "If I could but shudder!
If I could but shudder!"
The host who heard this, laughed and said: "If that is your desire, there ought to be a good opportunity for you here."
"Ah, be silent," said the hostess, "so many prying persons have already lost their lives, it would be a pity and a shame if such beautiful eyes as these should never see the daylight again."
But the youth said: "However difficult it may be, I will learn it.
For this purpose indeed have I journeyed forth."
He let the host have no rest, until the latter told him, that not far from thence stood a haunted castle where anyone could very easily learn what shuddering was, if he would but watch in it for three nights.
The king had promised that he who would venture should have his daughter to wife, and she was the most beautiful maiden the sun shone on.
Likewise in the castle lay great treasures, which were guarded by evil spirits, and these treasures would then be freed, and would make a poor man rich enough.
Already many men had gone into the castle, but as yet none had come out again.
Then the youth went next morning to the king, and said: "If it be allowed, I will willingly watch three nights in the haunted castle."
The king looked at him, and as the youth pleased him, he said: "You may ask for three things to take into the castle with you, but they must be things without life."
Then he answered: "Then I ask for a fire, a turning lathe, and a cutting-board with the knife."
The king had these things carried into the castle for him during the day.
When night was drawing near, the youth went up and made himself a bright fire in one of the rooms, placed the cutting-board and knife beside it, and seated himself by the turning-lathe.
"Ah, if I could but shudder!" said he, "but I shall not learn it here either."
Towards midnight he was about to poke his fire, and as he was blowing it, something cried suddenly from one corner: "Au, miau! how cold we are!"
"You fools!" cried he, "what are you crying about?
If you are cold, come and take a seat by the fire and warm yourselves."
And when he had said that, two great black cats came with one tremendous leap and sat down on each side of him, and looked savagely at him with their fiery eyes.
After a short time, when they had warmed themselves, they said: "Comrade, shall we have a game of cards?"
"Why not?" he replied, "but just show me your paws."
Then they stretched out their claws.
"Oh," said he, "what long nails you have!
Wait, I must first cut them for you."
Thereupon he seized them by the throats, put them on the cutting-board and screwed their feet fast.
"I have looked at your fingers," said he, "and my fancy for card-playing has gone," and he struck them dead and threw them out into the water.
But when he had made away with these two, and was about to sit down again by his fire, out from every hole and corner came black cats and black dogs with red-hot chains, and more and more of them came until he could no longer move, and they yelled horribly, and got on his fire, pulled it to pieces, and tried to put it out.
He watched them for a while quietly, but at last when they were going too far, he seized his cutting-knife, and cried: "Away with you, vermin," and began to cut them down.
Some of them ran away, the others he killed, and threw out into the fish-pond.
When he came back he fanned the embers of his fire again and warmed himself.
And as he thus sat, his eyes would keep open no longer, and he felt a desire to sleep.
Then he looked round and saw a great bed in the corner.
"That is the very thing for me," said he, and got into it.
When he was just going to shut his eyes, however, the bed began to move of its own accord, and went over the whole of the castle.
"That"s right," said he, "but go faster."
Then the bed rolled on as if six horses were harnessed to it, up and down, over thresholds and stairs, but suddenly hop, hop, it turned over upside down, and lay on him like a mountain.
But he threw quilts and pillows up in the air, got out and said: "Now anyone who likes, may drive," and lay down by his fire, and slept till it was day.
In the morning the king came, and when he saw him lying there on the ground, he thought the evil spirits had killed him and he was dead.
Then said he: "After all it is a pity,--for so handsome a man."
The youth heard it, got up, and said: "It has not come to that yet."
Then the king was astonished, but very glad, and asked how he had fared.
"Very well indeed," answered he; "one night is past, the two others will pass likewise."
Then he went to the innkeeper, who opened his eyes very wide, and said: "I never expected to see you alive again!
Have you learnt how to shudder yet?"
"No," said he, "it is all in vain.
If someone would but tell me!"
The second night he again went up into the old castle, sat down by the fire, and once more began his old song: "If I could but shudder!"
When midnight came, an uproar and noise of tumbling about was heard; at first it was low, but it grew louder and louder.
Then it was quiet for a while, and at length with a loud scream, half a man came down the chimney and fell before him.
"Hullo!" cried he, "another half belongs to this.
This is not enough!"
Then the uproar began again, there was a roaring and howling, and the other half fell down likewise.
"Wait," said he, "I will just stoke up the fire a little for you."
When he had done that and looked round again, the two pieces were joined together, and a hideous man was sitting in his place.
"That is no part of our bargain," said the youth, "the bench is mine."
The man wanted to push him away; the youth, however, would not allow that, but thrust him off with all his strength, and seated himself again in his own place.
Then still more men fell down, one after the other; they brought nine dead men"s legs and two skulls, and set them up and played at nine-pins with them.
The youth also wanted to play and said: "Listen you, can I join you?"
"Yes, if you have any money."
"Money enough," replied he, "but your balls are not quite round."
Then he took the skulls and put them in the lathe and turned them till they were round.
"There, now they will roll better!" said he.
"Hurrah! now we"ll have fun!"
He played with them and lost some of his money, but when it struck twelve, everything vanished from his sight.
He lay down and quietly fell asleep.
Next morning the king came to inquire after him.
"How has it fared with you this time?" asked he.
"I have been playing at ninepins," he answered, "and have lost a couple of farthings."
"Have you not shuddered then?"
"What?" said he, "I have had a wonderful time!
If I did but know what it was to shudder!"
The third night he sat down again on his bench and said quite sadly: "If I could but shudder."
When it grew late, six tall men came in and brought a coffin.
Then he said: "Ha, ha, that is certainly my little cousin, who died only a few days ago," and he beckoned with his finger, and cried: "Come, little cousin, come."
They placed the coffin on the ground, but he went to it and took the lid off, and a dead man lay therein.
He felt his face, but it was cold as ice.
"Wait," said he, "I will warm you a little," and went to the fire and warmed his hand and laid it on the dead man"s face, but he remained cold.
Then he took him out, and sat down by the fire and laid him on his breast and rubbed his arms that the blood might circulate again.
As this also did no good, he thought to himself: "When two people lie in bed together, they warm each other," and carried him to the bed, covered him over and lay down by him.
After a short time the dead man became warm too, and began to move.
Then said the youth, "See, little cousin, have I not warmed you?"
The dead man, however, got up and cried: "Now will I strangle you."
"What!" said he, "is that the way you thank me?
You shall at once go into your coffin again," and he took him up, threw him into it, and shut the lid.
Then came the six men and carried him away again.
"I cannot manage to shudder," said he.
"I shall never learn it here as long as I live."
Then a man entered who was taller than all others, and looked terrible.
He was old, however, and had a long white beard.
"You wretch," cried he, "you shall soon learn what it is to shudder, for you shall die."
"Not so fast," replied the youth.
"If I am to die, I shall have to have a say in it."
"I will soon seize you," said the fiend.
"Softly, softly, do not talk so big.
I am as strong as you are, and perhaps even stronger."
"We shall see," said the old man.
"If you are stronger, I will let you go--come, we will try."
Then he led him by dark passages to a smith"s forge, took an axe, and with one blow struck an anvil into the ground.
"I can do better than that," said the youth, and went to the other anvil.
The old man placed himself near and wanted to look on, and his white beard hung down.
Then the youth seized the axe, split the anvil with one blow, and in it caught the old man"s beard.
"Now I have you," said the youth.
"Now it is your turn to die."
Then he seized an iron bar and beat the old man till he moaned and entreated him to stop, when he would give him great riches.
The youth drew out the axe and let him go.
The old man led him back into the castle, and in a cellar showed him three chests full of gold.
"Of these," said he, "one part is for the poor, the other for the king, the third yours."
In the meantime it struck twelve, and the spirit disappeared, so that the youth stood in darkness.
"I shall still be able to find my way out," said he, and felt about, found the way into the room, and slept there by his fire.
Next morning the king came and said: "Now you must have learnt what shuddering is?"
"No," he answered; "what can it be?
My dead cousin was here, and a bearded man came and showed me a great deal of money down below, but no one told me what it was to shudder."
"Then," said the king, "you have saved the castle, and shall marry my daughter."
"That is all very well," said he, "but still I do not know what it is to shudder!"
Then the gold was brought up and the wedding celebrated; but howsoever much the young king loved his wife, and however happy he was, he still said always: "If I could but shudder--if I could but shudder."
And this at last angered her.
Her waiting-maid said: "I will find a cure for him; he shall soon learn what it is to shudder."
She went out to the stream which flowed through the garden, and had a whole bucketful of gudgeons brought to her.
At night when the young king was sleeping, his wife was to draw the clothes off him and empty the bucket full of cold water with the gudgeons in it over him, so that the little fishes would sprawl about him.
Then he woke up and cried: "Oh, what makes me shudder so?-- what makes me shudder so, dear wife?
Ah! now I know what it is to shudder!"
In a village dwelt a poor old woman, who had gathered together a dish of beans and wanted to cook them.
So she made a fire on her hearth, and that it might burn the quicker, she lighted it with a handful of straw.
When she was emptying the beans into the pan, one dropped without her observing it, and lay on the ground beside a straw, and soon afterwards a burning coal from the fire leapt down to the two.
Then the straw began and said: "Dear friends, from whence do you come here?"
The coal replied: "I fortunately sprang out of the fire, and if I had not escaped by sheer force, my death would have been certain,--I should have been burnt to ashes."
The bean said: "I too have escaped with a whole skin, but if the old woman had got me into the pan, I should have been made into broth without any mercy, like my comrades."
"And would a better fate have fallen to my lot?" said the straw.
"The old woman has destroyed all my brethren in fire and smoke; she seized sixty of them at once, and took their lives.
I luckily slipped through her fingers."
"But what are we to do now?" said the coal.
"I think," answered the bean, "that as we have so fortunately escaped death, we should keep together like good companions, and lest a new mischance should overtake us here, we should go away together, and repair to a foreign country."
The proposition pleased the two others, and they set out on their way together.
Soon, however, they came to a little brook, and as there was no bridge or foot-plank, they did not know how they were to get over it.
The straw hit on a good idea, and said: "I will lay myself straight across, and then you can walk over on me as on a bridge."
The straw therefore stretched itself from one bank to the other, and the coal, who was of an impetuous disposition, tripped quite boldly on to the newly-built bridge.
But when she had reached the middle, and heard the water rushing beneath her, she was after all, afraid, and stood still, and ventured no farther.
The straw, however, began to burn, broke in two pieces, and fell into the stream.
The coal slipped after her, hissed when she got into the water, and breathed her last.
The bean, who had prudently stayed behind on the shore, could not but laugh at the event, was unable to stop, and laughed so heartily that she burst.
It would have been all over with her, likewise, if, by good fortune, a tailor who was travelling in search of work, had not sat down to rest by the brook.
As he had a compassionate heart he pulled out his needle and thread, and sewed her together.
The bean thanked him most prettily, but as the tailor used black thread, all beans since then have a black seam.
An aged count once lived in Switzerland, who had an only son, but he was stupid, and could learn nothing.
Then said the father: "Hark you, my son, try as I will I can get nothing into your head.
You must go from hence, I will give you into the care of a celebrated master, who shall see what he can do with you."
The youth was sent into a strange town, and remained a whole year with the master.
At the end of this time, he came home again, and his father asked: "Now, my son, what have you learnt?"
"Father, I have learnt what the dogs say when they bark."
"Lord have mercy on us!" cried the father; "is that all you have learnt?
I will send you into another town, to another master."
The youth was taken thither, and stayed a year with this master likewise.
When he came back the father again asked: "My son, what have you learnt?"
He answered: "Father, I have learnt what the birds say."
Then the father fell into a rage and said: "Oh, you lost man, you have spent the precious time and learnt nothing; are you not ashamed to appear before my eyes?
I will send you to a third master, but if you learn nothing this time also, I will no longer be your father."
The youth remained a whole year with the third master also, and when he came home again, and his father inquired: "My son, what have you learnt?" he answered: "Dear father, I have this year learnt what the frogs croak."
Then the father fell into the most furious anger, sprang up, called his people thither, and said: "This man is no longer my son, I drive him forth, and command you to take him out into the forest, and kill him."
They took him forth, but when they should have killed him, they could not do it for pity, and let him go, and they cut the eyes and tongue out of a deer that they might carry them to the old man as a token.
The youth wandered on, and after some time came to a fortress where he begged for a night"s lodging.
"Yes," said the lord of the castle, "if you will pass the night down there in the old tower, go thither; but I warn you, it is at the peril of your life, for it is full of wild dogs, which bark and howl without stopping, and at certain hours a man has to be given to them, whom they at once devour."
The whole district was in sorrow and dismay because of them, and yet no one could do anything to stop this.
The youth, however, was without fear, and said: "Just let me go down to the barking dogs, and give me something that I can throw to them; they will do nothing to harm me."
As he himself would have it so, they gave him some food for the wild animals, and led him down to the tower.
When he went inside, the dogs did not bark at him, but wagged their tails quite amicably around him, ate what he set before them, and did not hurt one hair of his head.
Next morning, to the astonishment of everyone, he came out again safe and unharmed, and said to the lord of the castle: "The dogs have revealed to me, in their own language, why they dwell there, and bring evil on the land.
They are bewitched, and are obliged to watch over a great treasure which is below in the tower, and they can have no rest until it is taken away, and I have likewise learnt, from their discourse, how that is to be done."
Then all who heard this rejoiced, and the lord of the castle said he would adopt him as a son if he accomplished it successfully.
He went down again, and as he knew what he had to do, he did it thoroughly, and brought a chest full of gold out with him.
The howling of the wild dogs was henceforth heard no more; they had disappeared, and the country was freed from the trouble.
After some time he took it in his head that he would travel to Rome.
On the way he passed by a marsh, in which a number of frogs were sitting croaking.
He listened to them, and when he became aware of what they were saying, he grew very thoughtful and sad.
At last he arrived in Rome, where the Pope had just died, and there was great doubt among the cardinals as to whom they should appoint as his successor.
They at length agreed that the person should be chosen as pope who should be distinguished by some divine and miraculous token.
And just as that was decided on, the young count entered into the church, and suddenly two snow-white doves flew on his shoulders and remained sitting there.
The ecclesiastics recognized therein the token from above, and asked him on the spot if he would be pope.
He was undecided, and knew not if he were worthy of this, but the doves counselled him to do it, and at length he said yes.
Then was he anointed and consecrated, and thus was fulfilled what he had heard from the frogs on his way, which had so affected him, that he was to be his Holiness the Pope.
Then he had to sing a mass, and did not know one word of it, but the two doves sat continually on his shoulders, and said it all in his ear.
An honest farmer had once an ass that had been a faithful servant to him a great many years, but was now growing old and every day more and more unfit for work.
His master therefore was tired of keeping him and began to think of putting an end to him; but the ass, who saw that some mischief was in the wind, took himself slyly off, and began his journey towards the great city, "For there," thought he, "I may turn musician."
After he had travelled a little way, he spied a dog lying by the roadside and panting as if he were tired.
"What makes you pant so, my friend?" said the ass.
"Alas!" said the dog, "my master was going to knock me on the head, because I am old and weak, and can no longer make myself useful to him in hunting; so I ran away; but what can I do to earn my livelihood?"
"Hark ye!" said the ass, "I am going to the great city to turn musician: suppose you go with me, and try what you can do in the same way?"
The dog said he was willing, and they jogged on together.
They had not gone far before they saw a cat sitting in the middle of the road and making a most rueful face.
"Pray, my good lady," said the ass, "what"s the matter with you?
You look quite out of spirits!"
"Ah, me!" said the cat, "how can one be in good spirits when one"s life is in danger?
Because I am beginning to grow old, and had rather lie at my ease by the fire than run about the house after the mice, my mistress laid hold of me, and was going to drown me; and though I have been lucky enough to get away from her, I do not know what I am to live upon."
"Oh," said the ass, "by all means go with us to the great city; you are a good night singer, and may make your fortune as a musician."
The cat was pleased with the thought, and joined the party.
Soon afterwards, as they were passing by a farmyard, they saw a cock perched upon a gate, and screaming out with all his might and main.
"Bravo!" said the ass; "upon my word, you make a famous noise; pray what is all this about?"
"Why," said the cock, "I was just now saying that we should have fine weather for our washing-day, and yet my mistress and the cook don"t thank me for my pains, but threaten to cut off my head tomorrow, and make broth of me for the guests that are coming on Sunday!"
"Heaven forbid!" said the ass, "come with us Master Chanticleer; it will be better, at any rate, than staying here to have your head cut off!
Besides, who knows?
If we care to sing in tune, we may get up some kind of a concert; so come along with us."
"With all my heart," said the cock: so they all four went on jollily together.
They could not, however, reach the great city the first day; so when night came on, they went into a wood to sleep.
The ass and the dog laid themselves down under a great tree, and the cat climbed up into the branches; while the cock, thinking that the higher he sat the safer he should be, flew up to the very top of the tree, and then, according to his custom, before he went to sleep, looked out on all sides of him to see that everything was well.
In doing this, he saw afar off something bright and shining and calling to his companions said, "There must be a house no great way off, for I see a light."
"If that be the case," said the ass, "we had better change our quarters, for our lodging is not the best in the world!"
"Besides," added the dog, "I should not be the worse for a bone or two, or a bit of meat."
So they walked off together towards the spot where Chanticleer had seen the light, and as they drew near it became larger and brighter, till they at last came close to a house in which a gang of robbers lived.
The ass, being the tallest of the company, marched up to the window and peeped in.
"Well, Donkey," said Chanticleer, "what do you see?"
"What do I see?" replied the ass.
"Why, I see a table spread with all kinds of good things, and robbers sitting round it making merry."
"That would be a noble lodging for us," said the cock.
"Yes," said the ass, "if we could only get in"; so they consulted together how they should contrive to get the robbers out; and at last they hit upon a plan.
The ass placed himself upright on his hind legs, with his forefeet resting against the window; the dog got upon his back; the cat scrambled up to the dog"s shoulders, and the cock flew up and sat upon the cat"s head.
When all was ready a signal was given, and they began their music.
The ass brayed, the dog barked, the cat mewed, and the cock screamed; and then they all broke through the window at once, and came tumbling into the room, amongst the broken glass, with a most hideous clatter!
The robbers, who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert, had now no doubt that some frightful hobgoblin had broken in upon them, and scampered away as fast as they could.
The coast once clear, our travellers soon sat down and dispatched what the robbers had left, with as much eagerness as if they had not expected to eat again for a month.
As soon as they had satisfied themselves, they put out the lights, and each once more sought out a resting-place to his own liking.
The donkey laid himself down upon a heap of straw in the yard, the dog stretched himself upon a mat behind the door, the cat rolled herself up on the hearth before the warm ashes, and the cock perched upon a beam on the top of the house; and, as they were all rather tired with their journey, they soon fell asleep.
But about midnight, when the robbers saw from afar that the lights were out and that all seemed quiet, they began to think that they had been in too great a hurry to run away; and one of them, who was bolder than the rest, went to see what was going on.
Finding everything still, he marched into the kitchen, and groped about till he found a match in order to light a candle; and then, espying the glittering fiery eyes of the cat, he mistook them for live coals, and held the match to them to light it.
But the cat, not understanding this joke, sprang at his face, and spat, and scratched at him.
This frightened him dreadfully, and away he ran to the back door; but there the dog jumped up and bit him in the leg; and as he was crossing over the yard the ass kicked him; and the cock, who had been awakened by the noise, crowed with all his might.
At this the robber ran back as fast as he could to his comrades, and told the captain how a horrid witch had got into the house, and had spat at him and scratched his face with her long bony fingers; how a man with a knife in his hand had hidden himself behind the door, and stabbed him in the leg; how a black monster stood in the yard and struck him with a club, and how the devil had sat upon the top of the house and cried out, "Throw the rascal up here!"
After this the robbers never dared to go back to the house; but the musicians were so pleased with their quarters that they took up their abode there; and there they are, I dare say, at this very day.
There were two brothers who were both soldiers; the one was rich and the other poor.
The poor man thought he would try to better himself; so, pulling off his red coat, he became a gardener, and dug his ground well, and sowed turnips.
When the seed came up, there was one plant bigger than all the rest; and it kept getting larger and larger, and seemed as if it would never cease growing; so that it might have been called the prince of turnips for there never was such a one seen before, and never will again.
At last it was so big that it filled a cart, and two oxen could hardly draw it; and the gardener knew not what in the world to do with it, nor whether it would be a blessing or a curse to him.
One day he said to himself, "What shall I do with it? if I sell it, it will bring no more than another; and for eating, the little turnips are better than this; the best thing perhaps is to carry it and give it to the king as a mark of respect."
Then he yoked his oxen, and drew the turnip to the court, and gave it to the king.
"What a wonderful thing!" said the king; "I have seen many strange things, but such a monster as this I never saw.
Where did you get the seed? or is it only your good luck?
If so, you are a true child of fortune."
"Ah, no!" answered the gardener, "I am no child of fortune; I am a poor soldier, who never could get enough to live upon; so I laid aside my red coat, and set to work, tilling the ground.
I have a brother, who is rich, and your majesty knows him well, and all the world knows him; but because I am poor, everybody forgets me."
The king then took pity on him, and said, "You shall be poor no longer.
I will give you so much that you shall be even richer than your brother."
Then he gave him gold and lands and flocks, and made him so rich that his brother"s fortune could not at all be compared with his.
When the brother heard of all this, and how a turnip had made the gardener so rich, he envied him sorely, and bethought himself how he could contrive to get the same good fortune for himself.
However, he determined to manage more cleverly than his brother, and got together a rich present of gold and fine horses for the king; and thought he must have a much larger gift in return; for if his brother had received so much for only a turnip, what must his present be wroth?
The king took the gift very graciously, and said he knew not what to give in return more valuable and wonderful than the great turnip; so the soldier was forced to put it into a cart, and drag it home with him.
When he reached home, he knew not upon whom to vent his rage and spite; and at length wicked thoughts came into his head, and he resolved to kill his brother.
So he hired some villains to murder him; and having shown them where to lie in ambush, he went to his brother, and said, "Dear brother, I have found a hidden treasure; let us go and dig it up, and share it between us."
The other had no suspicions of his roguery: so they went out together, and as they were travelling along, the murderers rushed out upon him, bound him, and were going to hang him on a tree.
But whilst they were getting all ready, they heard the trampling of a horse at a distance, which so frightened them that they pushed their prisoner neck and shoulders together into a sack, and swung him up by a cord to the tree, where they left him dangling, and ran away.
Meantime he worked and worked away, till he made a hole large enough to put out his head.
When the horseman came up, he proved to be a student, a merry fellow, who was journeying along on his nag, and singing as he went.
As soon as the man in the sack saw him passing under the tree, he cried out, "Good morning! good morning to thee, my friend!"
The student looked about everywhere; and seeing no one, and not knowing where the voice came from, cried out, "Who calls me?"
Then the man in the tree answered, "Lift up thine eyes, for behold here I sit in the sack of wisdom; here have I, in a short time, learned great and wondrous things.
Compared to this seat, all the learning of the schools is as empty air.
A little longer, and I shall know all that man can know, and shall come forth wiser than the wisest of mankind.
Here I discern the signs and motions of the heavens and the stars; the laws that control the winds; the number of the sands on the seashore; the healing of the sick; the virtues of all simples, of birds, and of precious stones.
Wert thou but once here, my friend, though wouldst feel and own the power of knowledge.
The student listened to all this and wondered much; at last he said, "Blessed be the day and hour when I found you; cannot you contrive to let me into the sack for a little while?"
Then the other answered, as if very unwillingly, "A little space I may allow thee to sit here, if thou wilt reward me well and entreat me kindly; but thou must tarry yet an hour below, till I have learnt some little matters that are yet unknown to me."
So the student sat himself down and waited a while; but the time hung heavy upon him, and he begged earnestly that he might ascend forthwith, for his thirst for knowledge was great.
Then the other pretended to give way, and said, "Thou must let the sack of wisdom descend, by untying yonder cord, and then thou shalt enter."
So the student let him down, opened the sack, and set him free.
"Now then," cried he, "let me ascend quickly."
As he began to put himself into the sack heels first, "Wait a while," said the gardener, "that is not the way."
Then he pushed him in head first, tied up the sack, and soon swung up the searcher after wisdom dangling in the air.
"How is it with thee, friend?" said he, "dost thou not feel that wisdom comes unto thee?
Rest there in peace, till thou art a wiser man than thou wert."
So saying, he trotted off on the student"s nag, and left the poor fellow to gather wisdom till somebody should come and let him down.
There was a king who had twelve beautiful daughters.
They slept in twelve beds all in one room; and when they went to bed, the doors were shut and locked up; but every morning their shoes were found to be quite worn through as if they had been danced in all night; and yet nobody could find out how it happened, or where they had been.
Then the king made it known to all the land, that if any person could discover the secret, and find out where it was that the princesses danced in the night, he should have the one he liked best for his wife, and should be king after his death; but whoever tried and did not succeed, after three days and nights, should be put to death.
A king"s son soon came.
He was well entertained, and in the evening was taken to the chamber next to the one where the princesses lay in their twelve beds.
There he was to sit and watch where they went to dance; and, in order that nothing might pass without his hearing it, the door of his chamber was left open.
But the king"s son soon fell asleep; and when he awoke in the morning he found that the princesses had all been dancing, for the soles of their shoes were full of holes.
The same thing happened the second and third night: so the king ordered his head to be cut off.
After him came several others; but they had all the same luck, and all lost their lives in the same manner.
Now it chanced that an old soldier, who had been wounded in battle and could fight no longer, passed through the country where this king reigned: and as he was travelling through a wood, he met an old woman, who asked him where he was going.
"I hardly know where I am going, or what I had better do," said the soldier; "but I think I should like very well to find out where it is that the princesses dance, and then in time I might be a king."
"Well," said the old dame, "that is no very hard task: only take care not to drink any of the wine which one of the princesses will bring to you in the evening; and as soon as she leaves you pretend to be fast asleep."
Then she gave him a cloak, and said, "As soon as you put that on you will become invisible, and you will then be able to follow the princesses wherever they go."
When the soldier heard all this good counsel, he determined to try his luck: so he went to the king, and said he was willing to undertake the task.
He was as well received as the others had been, and the king ordered fine royal robes to be given him; and when the evening came he was led to the outer chamber.
Just as he was going to lie down, the eldest of the princesses brought him a cup of wine; but the soldier threw it all away secretly, taking care not to drink a drop.
Then he laid himself down on his bed, and in a little while began to snore very loud as if he was fast asleep.
When the twelve princesses heard this they laughed heartily; and the eldest said, "This fellow too might have done a wiser thing than lose his life in this way!"
Then they rose up and opened their drawers and boxes, and took out all their fine clothes, and dressed themselves at the glass, and skipped about as if they were eager to begin dancing.
But the youngest said, "I don"t know how it is, while you are so happy I feel very uneasy; I am sure some mischance will befall us."
"You simpleton," said the eldest, "you are always afraid; have you forgotten how many kings" sons have already watched in vain?
And as for this soldier, even if I had not given him his sleeping draught, he would have slept soundly enough."
When they were all ready, they went and looked at the soldier; but he snored on, and did not stir hand or foot: so they thought they were quite safe; and the eldest went up to her own bed and clapped her hands, and the bed sank into the floor and a trap-door flew open.
The soldier saw them going down through the trap-door one after another, the eldest leading the way; and thinking he had no time to lose, he jumped up, put on the cloak which the old woman had given him, and followed them; but in the middle of the stairs he trod on the gown of the youngest princess, and she cried out to her sisters, "All is not right; someone took hold of my gown."
"You silly creature!" said the eldest, "it is nothing but a nail in the wall."
Then down they all went, and at the bottom they found themselves in a most delightful grove of trees; and the leaves were all of silver, and glittered and sparkled beautifully.
The soldier wished to take away some token of the place; so he broke off a little branch, and there came a loud noise from the tree.
Then the youngest daughter said again, "I am sure all is not right--did not you hear that noise?
That never happened before."
But the eldest said, "It is only our princes, who are shouting for joy at our approach."
Then they came to another grove of trees, where all the leaves were of gold; and afterwards to a third, where the leaves were all glittering diamonds.
And the soldier broke a branch from each; and every time there was a loud noise, which made the youngest sister tremble with fear; but the eldest still said, it was only the princes, who were crying for joy.
So they went on till they came to a great lake; and at the side of the lake there lay twelve little boats with twelve handsome princes in them, who seemed to be waiting there for the princesses.
One of the princesses went into each boat, and the soldier stepped into the same boat with the youngest.
As they were rowing over the lake, the prince who was in the boat with the youngest princess and the soldier said, "I do not know why it is, but though I am rowing with all my might we do not get on so fast as usual, and I am quite tired: the boat seems very heavy today."
"It is only the heat of the weather," said the princess: "I feel it very warm too."
On the other side of the lake stood a fine illuminated castle, from which came the merry music of horns and trumpets.
There they all landed, and went into the castle, and each prince danced with his princess; and the soldier, who was all the time invisible, danced with them too; and when any of the princesses had a cup of wine set by her, he drank it all up, so that when she put the cup to her mouth it was empty.
At this, too, the youngest sister was terribly frightened, but the eldest always silenced her.
They danced on till three o"clock in the morning, and then all their shoes were worn out, so that they were obliged to leave off.
The princes rowed them back again over the lake (but this time the soldier placed himself in the boat with the eldest princess); and on the opposite shore they took leave of each other, the princesses promising to come again the next night.
When they came to the stairs, the soldier ran on before the princesses, and laid himself down; and as the twelve sisters slowly came up very much tired, they heard him snoring in his bed; so they said, "Now all is quite safe"; then they undressed themselves, put away their fine clothes, pulled off their shoes, and went to bed.
In the morning the soldier said nothing about what had happened, but determined to see more of this strange adventure, and went again the second and third night; and every thing happened just as before; the princesses danced each time till their shoes were worn to pieces, and then returned home.
However, on the third night the soldier carried away one of the golden cups as a token of where he had been.
As soon as the time came when he was to declare the secret, he was taken before the king with the three branches and the golden cup; and the twelve princesses stood listening behind the door to hear what he would say.
And when the king asked him.
"Where do my twelve daughters dance at night?" he answered, "With twelve princes in a castle under ground."
And then he told the king all that had happened, and showed him the three branches and the golden cup which he had brought with him.
Then the king called for the princesses, and asked them whether what the soldier said was true: and when they saw that they were discovered, and that it was of no use to deny what had happened, they confessed it all.
And the king asked the soldier which of them he would choose for his wife; and he answered, "I am not very young, so I will have the eldest."--And they were married that very day, and the soldier was chosen to be the king"s heir.
There was once a king"s son who had a bride whom he loved very much.
And when he was sitting beside her and very happy, news came that his father lay sick unto death, and desired to see him once again before his end.
Then he said to his beloved: "I must now go and leave you, I give you a ring as a remembrance of me.
When I am king, I will return and fetch you."
So he rode away, and when he reached his father, the latter was dangerously ill, and near his death.
He said to him: "Dear son, I wished to see you once again before my end, promise me to marry as I wish," and he named a certain king"s daughter who was to be his wife.
The son was in such trouble that he did not think what he was doing, and said: "Yes, dear father, your will shall be done," and thereupon the king shut his eyes, and died.
When therefore the son had been proclaimed king, and the time of mourning was over, he was forced to keep the promise which he had given his father, and caused the king"s daughter to be asked in marriage, and she was promised to him.
His first betrothed heard of this, and fretted so much about his faithfulness that she nearly died.
Then her father said to her: "Dearest child, why are you so sad?
You shall have whatsoever you will."
She thought for a moment and said: "Dear father, I wish for eleven girls exactly like myself in face, figure, and size."
The father said: "If it be possible, your desire shall be fulfilled," and he caused a search to be made in his whole kingdom, until eleven young maidens were found who exactly resembled his daughter in face, figure, and size.
When they came to the king"s daughter, she had twelve suits of huntsmen"s clothes made, all alike, and the eleven maidens had to put on the huntsmen"s clothes, and she herself put on the twelfth suit.
Thereupon she took her leave of her father, and rode away with them, and rode to the court of her former betrothed, whom she loved so dearly.
Then she asked if he required any huntsmen, and if he would take all of them into his service.
The king looked at her and did not know her, but as they were such handsome fellows, he said: "Yes," and that he would willingly take them, and now they were the king"s twelve huntsmen.
The king, however, had a lion which was a wondrous animal, for he knew all concealed and secret things.
It came to pass that one evening he said to the king: "You think you have twelve huntsmen?"
"Yes," said the king, "they are twelve huntsmen."
The lion continued: "You are mistaken, they are twelve girls."
The king said: "That cannot be true!
How will you prove that to me?"
"Oh, just let some peas be strewn in the ante-chamber," answered the lion, "and then you will soon see.
Men have a firm step, and when they walk over peas none of them stir, but girls trip and skip, and drag their feet, and the peas roll about."
The king was well pleased with the counsel, and caused the peas to be strewn.
There was, however, a servant of the king"s who favoured the huntsmen, and when he heard that they were going to be put to this test he went to them and repeated everything, and said: "The lion wants to make the king believe that you are girls."
Then the king"s daughter thanked him, and said to her maidens: "Show some strength, and step firmly on the peas."
So next morning when the king had the twelve huntsmen called before him, and they came into the ante-chamber where the peas were lying, they stepped so firmly on them, and had such a strong, sure walk, that not one of the peas either rolled or stirred.
Then they went away again, and the king said to the lion: "You have lied to me, they walk just like men."
The lion said: "They have been informed that they were going to be put to the test, and have assumed some strength.
Just let twelve spinning-wheels be brought into the antechamber, and they will go to them and be pleased with them, and that is what no man would do."
The king liked the advice, and had the spinning-wheels placed in the ante-chamber.
But the servant, who was well disposed to the huntsmen, went to them, and disclosed the project.
So when they were alone the king"s daughter said to her eleven girls: "Show some constraint, and do not look round at the spinning-wheels."
And next morning when the king had his twelve huntsmen summoned, they went through the ante-chamber, and never once looked at the spinning-wheels.
Then the king again said to the lion: "You have deceived me, they are men, for they have not looked at the spinning-wheels."
The lion replied: "They have restrained themselves."
The king, however, would no longer believe the lion.
The twelve huntsmen always followed the king to the chase, and his liking for them continually increased.
Now it came to pass that once when they were out hunting, news came that the king"s bride was approaching.
When the true bride heard that, it hurt her so much that her heart was almost broken, and she fell fainting to the ground.
The king thought something had happened to his dear huntsman, ran up to him, wanted to help him, and drew his glove off.
Then he saw the ring which he had given to his first bride, and when he looked in her face he recognized her.
Then his heart was so touched that he kissed her, and when she opened her eyes he said: "You are mine, and I am yours, and no one in the world can alter that."
He sent a messenger to the other bride, and entreated her to return to her own kingdom, for he had a wife already, and someone who had just found an old key did not require a new one.
Thereupon the wedding was celebrated, and the lion was again taken into favour, because, after all, he had told the truth.
One summer"s morning a little tailor was sitting on his table by the window; he was in good spirits, and sewed with all his might.
Then came a peasant woman down the street crying: "Good jams, cheap!
Good jams, cheap!"
This rang pleasantly in the tailor"s ears; he stretched his delicate head out of the window, and called: "Come up here, dear woman; here you will get rid of your goods."
The woman came up the three steps to the tailor with her heavy basket, and he made her unpack all the pots for him.
He inspected each one, lifted it up, put his nose to it, and at length said: "The jam seems to me to be good, so weigh me out four ounces, dear woman, and if it is a quarter of a pound that is of no consequence."
The woman who had hoped to find a good sale, gave him what he desired, but went away quite angry and grumbling.
"Now, this jam shall be blessed by God," cried the little tailor, "and give me health and strength"; so he brought the bread out of the cupboard, cut himself a piece right across the loaf and spread the jam over it.
"This won"t taste bitter," said he, "but I will just finish the jacket before I take a bite."
He laid the bread near him, sewed on, and in his joy, made bigger and bigger stitches.
In the meantime the smell of the sweet jam rose to where the flies were sitting in great numbers, and they were attracted and descended on it in hosts.
"Hi! who invited you?" said the little tailor, and drove the unbidden guests away.
The flies, however, who understood no German, would not be turned away, but came back again in ever-increasing companies.
The little tailor at last lost all patience, and drew a piece of cloth from the hole under his work-table, and saying: "Wait, and I will give it to you," struck it mercilessly on them.
When he drew it away and counted, there lay before him no fewer than seven, dead and with legs stretched out.
"Are you a fellow of that sort?" said he, and could not help admiring his own bravery.
"The whole town shall know of this!"
And the little tailor hastened to cut himself a girdle, stitched it, and embroidered on it in large letters: "Seven at one stroke!"
"What, the town!" he continued, "the whole world shall hear of it!" and his heart wagged with joy like a lamb"s tail.
The tailor put on the girdle, and resolved to go forth into the world, because he thought his workshop was too small for his valour.
Before he went away, he sought about in the house to see if there was anything which he could take with him; however, he found nothing but an old cheese, and that he put in his pocket.
In front of the door he observed a bird which had caught itself in the thicket.
It had to go into his pocket with the cheese.
Now he took to the road boldly, and as he was light and nimble, he felt no fatigue.
The road led him up a mountain, and when he had reached the highest point of it, there sat a powerful giant looking peacefully about him.
The little tailor went bravely up, spoke to him, and said: "Good day, comrade, so you are sitting there overlooking the wide-spread world!
I am just on my way thither, and want to try my luck.
Have you any inclination to go with me?"
The giant looked contemptuously at the tailor, and said: "You ragamuffin!
You miserable creature!"
"Oh, indeed?" answered the little tailor, and unbuttoned his coat, and showed the giant the girdle, "there may you read what kind of a man I am!"
The giant read: "Seven at one stroke," and thought that they had been men whom the tailor had killed, and began to feel a little respect for the tiny fellow.
Nevertheless, he wished to try him first, and took a stone in his hand and squeezed it together so that water dropped out of it.
"Do that likewise," said the giant, "if you have strength."
"Is that all?" said the tailor, "that is child"s play with us!" and put his hand into his pocket, brought out the soft cheese, and pressed it until the liquid ran out of it.
"Faith," said he, "that was a little better, wasn"t it?"
The giant did not know what to say, and could not believe it of the little man.
Then the giant picked up a stone and threw it so high that the eye could scarcely follow it.
"Now, little mite of a man, do that likewise," "Well thrown," said the tailor, "but after all the stone came down to earth again; I will throw you one which shall never come back at all," and he put his hand into his pocket, took out the bird, and threw it into the air.
The bird, delighted with its liberty, rose, flew away and did not come back.
"How does that shot please you, comrade?" asked the tailor.
"You can certainly throw," said the giant, "but now we will see if you are able to carry anything properly."
He took the little tailor to a mighty oak tree which lay there felled on the ground, and said: "If you are strong enough, help me to carry the tree out of the forest."
"Readily," answered the little man; "take you the trunk on your shoulders, and I will raise up the branches and twigs; after all, they are the heaviest."
The giant took the trunk on his shoulder, but the tailor seated himself on a branch, and the giant, who could not look round, had to carry away the whole tree, and the little tailor into the bargain: he behind, was quite merry and happy, and whistled the song: "Three tailors rode forth from the gate," as if carrying the tree were child"s play.
The giant, after he had dragged the heavy burden part of the way, could go no further, and cried: "Hark you, I shall have to let the tree fall!"
The tailor sprang nimbly down, seized the tree with both arms as if he had been carrying it, and said to the giant: "You are such a great fellow, and yet cannot even carry the tree!"
They went on together, and as they passed a cherry-tree, the giant laid hold of the top of the tree where the ripest fruit was hanging, bent it down, gave it into the tailor"s hand, and bade him eat.
But the little tailor was much too weak to hold the tree, and when the giant let it go, it sprang back again, and the tailor was tossed into the air with it.
When he had fallen down again without injury, the giant said: "What is this?
Have you not strength enough to hold the weak twig?"
"There is no lack of strength," answered the little tailor.
"Do you think that could be anything to a man who has struck down seven at one blow?
I leapt over the tree because the huntsmen are shooting down there in the thicket.
Jump as I did, if you can do it."
The giant made the attempt but he could not get over the tree, and remained hanging in the branches, so that in this also the tailor kept the upper hand.
The giant said: "If you are such a valiant fellow, come with me into our cavern and spend the night with us."
The little tailor was willing, and followed him.
When they went into the cave, other giants were sitting there by the fire, and each of them had a roasted sheep in his hand and was eating it.
The little tailor looked round and thought: "It is much more spacious here than in my workshop."
The giant showed him a bed, and said he was to lie down in it and sleep.
The bed, however, was too big for the little tailor; he did not lie down in it, but crept into a corner.
When it was midnight, and the giant thought that the little tailor was lying in a sound sleep, he got up, took a great iron bar, cut through the bed with one blow, and thought he had finished off the grasshopper for good.
With the earliest dawn the giants went into the forest, and had quite forgotten the little tailor, when all at once he walked up to them quite merrily and boldly.
The giants were terrified, they were afraid that he would strike them all dead, and ran away in a great hurry.
The little tailor went onwards, always following his own pointed nose.
After he had walked for a long time, he came to the courtyard of a royal palace, and as he felt weary, he lay down on the grass and fell asleep.
Whilst he lay there, the people came and inspected him on all sides, and read on his girdle: "Seven at one stroke."
"Ah!" said they, "what does the great warrior want here in the midst of peace?
He must be a mighty lord."
They went and announced him to the king, and gave it as their opinion that if war should break out, this would be a weighty and useful man who ought on no account to be allowed to depart.
The counsel pleased the king, and he sent one of his courtiers to the little tailor to offer him military service when he awoke.
The ambassador remained standing by the sleeper, waited until he stretched his limbs and opened his eyes, and then conveyed to him this proposal.
"For this very reason have I come here," the tailor replied, "I am ready to enter the king"s service."
He was therefore honourably received, and a special dwelling was assigned him.
The soldiers, however, were set against the little tailor, and wished him a thousand miles away.
"What is to be the end of this?" they said among themselves.
"If we quarrel with him, and he strikes about him, seven of us will fall at every blow; not one of us can stand against him."
They came therefore to a decision, betook themselves in a body to the king, and begged for their dismissal.
"We are not prepared," said they, "to stay with a man who kills seven at one stroke."
The king was sorry that for the sake of one he should lose all his faithful servants, wished that he had never set eyes on the tailor, and would willingly have been rid of him again.
But he did not venture to give him his dismissal, for he dreaded lest he should strike him and all his people dead, and place himself on the royal throne.
He thought about it for a long time, and at last found good counsel.
He sent to the little tailor and caused him to be informed that as he was a great warrior, he had one request to make to him.
In a forest of his country lived two giants, who caused great mischief with their robbing, murdering, ravaging, and burning, and no one could approach them without putting himself in danger of death.
If the tailor conquered and killed these two giants, he would give him his only daughter to wife, and half of his kingdom as a dowry, likewise one hundred horsemen should go with him to assist him.
"That would indeed be a fine thing for a man like me!" thought the little tailor.
"One is not offered a beautiful princess and half a kingdom every day of one"s life!"
"Oh, yes," he replied, "I will soon subdue the giants, and do not require the help of the hundred horsemen to do it; he who can hit seven with one blow has no need to be afraid of two."
The little tailor went forth, and the hundred horsemen followed him.
When he came to the outskirts of the forest, he said to his followers: "Just stay waiting here, I alone will soon finish off the giants."
Then he bounded into the forest and looked about right and left.
After a while he perceived both giants.
They lay sleeping under a tree, and snored so that the branches waved up and down.
The little tailor, not idle, gathered two pocketsful of stones, and with these climbed up the tree.
When he was halfway up, he slipped down by a branch, until he sat just above the sleepers, and then let one stone after another fall on the breast of one of the giants.
For a long time the giant felt nothing, but at last he awoke, pushed his comrade, and said: "Why are you knocking me?"
"You must be dreaming," said the other, "I am not knocking you."
They laid themselves down to sleep again, and then the tailor threw a stone down on the second.
"What is the meaning of this?" cried the other "Why are you pelting me?"
"I am not pelting you," answered the first, growling.
They disputed about it for a time, but as they were weary they let the matter rest, and their eyes closed once more.
The little tailor began his game again, picked out the biggest stone, and threw it with all his might on the breast of the first giant.
"That is too bad!" cried he, and sprang up like a madman, and pushed his companion against the tree until it shook.
The other paid him back in the same coin, and they got into such a rage that they tore up trees and belaboured each other so long, that at last they both fell down dead on the ground at the same time.
Then the little tailor leapt down.
"It is a lucky thing," said he, "that they did not tear up the tree on which I was sitting, or I should have had to sprint on to another like a squirrel; but we tailors are nimble."
He drew out his sword and gave each of them a couple of thrusts in the breast, and then went out to the horsemen and said: "The work is done; I have finished both of them off, but it was hard work!
They tore up trees in their sore need, and defended themselves with them, but all that is to no purpose when a man like myself comes, who can kill seven at one blow."
"But are you not wounded?" asked the horsemen.
"You need not concern yourself about that," answered the tailor, "they have not bent one hair of mine."
The horsemen would not believe him, and rode into the forest; there they found the giants swimming in their blood, and all round about lay the torn-up trees.
The little tailor demanded of the king the promised reward; he, however, repented of his promise, and again bethought himself how he could get rid of the hero.
"Before you receive my daughter, and the half of my kingdom," said he to him, "you must perform one more heroic deed.
In the forest roams a unicorn which does great harm, and you must catch it first."
"I fear one unicorn still less than two giants.
Seven at one blow, is my kind of affair."
He took a rope and an axe with him, went forth into the forest, and again bade those who were sent with him to wait outside.
He had not long to seek.
The unicorn soon came towards him, and rushed directly on the tailor, as if it would gore him with its horn without more ado.
"Softly, softly; it can"t be done as quickly as that," said he, and stood still and waited until the animal was quite close, and then sprang nimbly behind the tree.
The unicorn ran against the tree with all its strength, and stuck its horn so fast in the trunk that it had not the strength enough to draw it out again, and thus it was caught.
"Now, I have got the bird," said the tailor, and came out from behind the tree and put the rope round its neck, and then with his axe he hewed the horn out of the tree, and when all was ready he led the beast away and took it to the king.
The king still would not give him the promised reward, and made a third demand.
Before the wedding the tailor was to catch him a wild boar that made great havoc in the forest, and the huntsmen should give him their help.
"Willingly," said the tailor, "that is child"s play!"
He did not take the huntsmen with him into the forest, and they were well pleased that he did not, for the wild boar had several times received them in such a manner that they had no inclination to lie in wait for him.
When the boar perceived the tailor, it ran on him with foaming mouth and whetted tusks, and was about to throw him to the ground, but the hero fled and sprang into a chapel which was near and up to the window at once, and in one bound out again.
The boar ran after him, but the tailor ran round outside and shut the door behind it, and then the raging beast, which was much too heavy and awkward to leap out of the window, was caught.
The little tailor called the huntsmen thither that they might see the prisoner with their own eyes.
The hero, however, went to the king, who was now, whether he liked it or not, obliged to keep his promise, and gave his daughter and the half of his kingdom.
Had he known that it was no warlike hero, but a little tailor who was standing before him, it would have gone to his heart still more than it did.
The wedding was held with great magnificence and small joy, and out of a tailor a king was made.
After some time the young queen heard her husband say in his dreams at night: "Boy, make me the doublet, and patch the pantaloons, or else I will rap the yard-measure over your ears."
Then she discovered in what state of life the young lord had been born, and next morning complained of her wrongs to her father, and begged him to help her to get rid of her husband, who was nothing else but a tailor.
The king comforted her and said: "Leave your bedroom door open this night, and my servants shall stand outside, and when he has fallen asleep shall go in, bind him, and take him on board a ship which shall carry him into the wide world."
The woman was satisfied with this; but the king"s armour-bearer, who had heard all, was friendly with the young lord, and informed him of the whole plot.
"I"ll put a screw into that business," said the little tailor.
At night he went to bed with his wife at the usual time, and when she thought that he had fallen asleep, she got up, opened the door, and then lay down again.
The little tailor, who was only pretending to be asleep, began to cry out in a clear voice: "Boy, make me the doublet and patch me the pantaloons, or I will rap the yard-measure over your ears.
I smote seven at one blow.
I killed two giants, I brought away one unicorn, and caught a wild boar, and am I to fear those who are standing outside the room."
When these men heard the tailor speaking thus, they were overcome by a great dread, and ran as if the wild huntsman were behind them, and none of them would venture anything further against him.
So the little tailor was and remained a king to the end of his life.
Long before you or I were born, there reigned, in a country a great way off, a king who had three sons.
This king once fell very ill--so ill that nobody thought he could live.
His sons were very much grieved at their father"s sickness; and as they were walking together very mournfully in the garden of the palace, a little old man met them and asked what was the matter.
They told him that their father was very ill, and that they were afraid nothing could save him.
"I know what would," said the little old man; "it is the Water of Life.
If he could have a draught of it he would be well again; but it is very hard to get."
Then the eldest son said, "I will soon find it": and he went to the sick king, and begged that he might go in search of the Water of Life, as it was the only thing that could save him.
"No," said the king.
"I had rather die than place you in such great danger as you must meet with in your journey."
But he begged so hard that the king let him go; and the prince thought to himself, "If I bring my father this water, he will make me sole heir to his kingdom."
Then he set out: and when he had gone on his way some time he came to a deep valley, overhung with rocks and woods; and as he looked around, he saw standing above him on one of the rocks a little ugly dwarf, with a sugarloaf cap and a scarlet cloak; and the dwarf called to him and said, "Prince, whither so fast?"
"What is that to thee, you ugly imp?" said the prince haughtily, and rode on.
But the dwarf was enraged at his behaviour, and laid a fairy spell of ill-luck upon him; so that as he rode on the mountain pass became narrower and narrower, and at last the way was so straitened that he could not go to step forward: and when he thought to have turned his horse round and go back the way he came, he heard a loud laugh ringing round him, and found that the path was closed behind him, so that he was shut in all round.
He next tried to get off his horse and make his way on foot, but again the laugh rang in his ears, and he found himself unable to move a step, and thus he was forced to abide spellbound.
Meantime the old king was lingering on in daily hope of his son"s return, till at last the second son said, "Father, I will go in search of the Water of Life."
For he thought to himself, "My brother is surely dead, and the kingdom will fall to me if I find the water."
The king was at first very unwilling to let him go, but at last yielded to his wish.
So he set out and followed the same road which his brother had done, and met with the same elf, who stopped him at the same spot in the mountains, saying, as before, "Prince, prince, whither so fast?"
"Mind your own affairs, busybody!" said the prince scornfully, and rode on.
But the dwarf put the same spell upon him as he put on his elder brother, and he, too, was at last obliged to take up his abode in the heart of the mountains.
Thus it is with proud silly people, who think themselves above everyone else, and are too proud to ask or take advice.
When the second prince had thus been gone a long time, the youngest son said he would go and search for the Water of Life, and trusted he should soon be able to make his father well again.
So he set out, and the dwarf met him too at the same spot in the valley, among the mountains, and said, "Prince, whither so fast?"
And the prince said, "I am going in search of the Water of Life, because my father is ill, and like to die: can you help me?
Pray be kind, and aid me if you can!"
"Do you know where it is to be found?" asked the dwarf.
"No," said the prince, "I do not.
Pray tell me if you know."
"Then as you have spoken to me kindly, and are wise enough to seek for advice, I will tell you how and where to go.
The water you seek springs from a well in an enchanted castle; and, that you may be able to reach it in safety, I will give you an iron wand and two little loaves of bread; strike the iron door of the castle three times with the wand, and it will open: two hungry lions will be lying down inside gaping for their prey, but if you throw them the bread they will let you pass; then hasten on to the well, and take some of the Water of Life before the clock strikes twelve; for if you tarry longer the door will shut upon you for ever."
Then the prince thanked his little friend with the scarlet cloak for his friendly aid, and took the wand and the bread, and went travelling on and on, over sea and over land, till he came to his journey"s end, and found everything to be as the dwarf had told him.
The door flew open at the third stroke of the wand, and when the lions were quieted he went on through the castle and came at length to a beautiful hall.
Around it he saw several knights sitting in a trance; then he pulled off their rings and put them on his own fingers.
In another room he saw on a table a sword and a loaf of bread, which he also took.
Further on he came to a room where a beautiful young lady sat upon a couch; and she welcomed him joyfully, and said, if he would set her free from the spell that bound her, the kingdom should be his, if he would come back in a year and marry her.
Then she told him that the well that held the Water of Life was in the palace gardens; and bade him make haste, and draw what he wanted before the clock struck twelve.
He walked on; and as he walked through beautiful gardens he came to a delightful shady spot in which stood a couch; and he thought to himself, as he felt tired, that he would rest himself for a while, and gaze on the lovely scenes around him.
So he laid himself down, and sleep fell upon him unawares, so that he did not wake up till the clock was striking a quarter to twelve.
Then he sprang from the couch dreadfully frightened, ran to the well, filled a cup that was standing by him full of water, and hastened to get away in time.
Just as he was going out of the iron door it struck twelve, and the door fell so quickly upon him that it snapped off a piece of his heel.
When he found himself safe, he was overjoyed to think that he had got the Water of Life; and as he was going on his way homewards, he passed by the little dwarf, who, when he saw the sword and the loaf, said, "You have made a noble prize; with the sword you can at a blow slay whole armies, and the bread will never fail you."
Then the prince thought to himself, "I cannot go home to my father without my brothers"; so he said, "My dear friend, cannot you tell me where my two brothers are, who set out in search of the Water of Life before me, and never came back?"
"I have shut them up by a charm between two mountains," said the dwarf, "because they were proud and ill-behaved, and scorned to ask advice."
The prince begged so hard for his brothers, that the dwarf at last set them free, though unwillingly, saying, "Beware of them, for they have bad hearts."
Their brother, however, was greatly rejoiced to see them, and told them all that had happened to him; how he had found the Water of Life, and had taken a cup full of it; and how he had set a beautiful princess free from a spell that bound her; and how she had engaged to wait a whole year, and then to marry him, and to give him the kingdom.
Then they all three rode on together, and on their way home came to a country that was laid waste by war and a dreadful famine, so that it was feared all must die for want.
But the prince gave the king of the land the bread, and all his kingdom ate of it.
And he lent the king the wonderful sword, and he slew the enemy"s army with it; and thus the kingdom was once more in peace and plenty.
In the same manner he befriended two other countries through which they passed on their way.
When they came to the sea, they got into a ship and during their voyage the two eldest said to themselves, "Our brother has got the water which we could not find, therefore our father will forsake us and give him the kingdom, which is our right"; so they were full of envy and revenge, and agreed together how they could ruin him.
Then they waited till he was fast asleep, and poured the Water of Life out of the cup, and took it for themselves, giving him bitter sea-water instead.
When they came to their journey"s end, the youngest son brought his cup to the sick king, that he might drink and be healed.
Scarcely, however, had he tasted the bitter sea-water when he became worse even than he was before; and then both the elder sons came in, and blamed the youngest for what they had done; and said that he wanted to poison their father, but that they had found the Water of Life, and had brought it with them.
He no sooner began to drink of what they brought him, than he felt his sickness leave him, and was as strong and well as in his younger days.
Then they went to their brother, and laughed at him, and said, "Well, brother, you found the Water of Life, did you?
You have had the trouble and we shall have the reward.
Pray, with all your cleverness, why did not you manage to keep your eyes open?
Next year one of us will take away your beautiful princess, if you do not take care.
You had better say nothing about this to our father, for he does not believe a word you say; and if you tell tales, you shall lose your life into the bargain: but be quiet, and we will let you off."
The old king was still very angry with his youngest son, and thought that he really meant to have taken away his life; so he called his court together, and asked what should be done, and all agreed that he ought to be put to death.
The prince knew nothing of what was going on, till one day, when the king"s chief huntsmen went a-hunting with him, and they were alone in the wood together, the huntsman looked so sorrowful that the prince said, "My friend, what is the matter with you?"
"I cannot and dare not tell you," said he.
But the prince begged very hard, and said, "Only tell me what it is, and do not think I shall be angry, for I will forgive you."
"Alas!" said the huntsman; "the king has ordered me to shoot you."
The prince started at this, and said, "Let me live, and I will change dresses with you; you shall take my royal coat to show to my father, and do you give me your shabby one."
"With all my heart," said the huntsman; "I am sure I shall be glad to save you, for I could not have shot you."
Then he took the prince"s coat, and gave him the shabby one, and went away through the wood.
Some time after, three grand embassies came to the old king"s court, with rich gifts of gold and precious stones for his youngest son; now all these were sent from the three kings to whom he had lent his sword and loaf of bread, in order to rid them of their enemy and feed their people.
This touched the old king"s heart, and he thought his son might still be guiltless, and said to his court, "O that my son were still alive! how it grieves me that I had him killed!"
"He is still alive," said the huntsman; "and I am glad that I had pity on him, but let him go in peace, and brought home his royal coat."
At this the king was overwhelmed with joy, and made it known thoughout all his kingdom, that if his son would come back to his court he would forgive him.
Meanwhile the princess was eagerly waiting till her deliverer should come back; and had a road made leading up to her palace all of shining gold; and told her courtiers that whoever came on horseback, and rode straight up to the gate upon it, was her true lover; and that they must let him in: but whoever rode on one side of it, they must be sure was not the right one; and that they must send him away at once.
The time soon came, when the eldest brother thought that he would make haste to go to the princess, and say that he was the one who had set her free, and that he should have her for his wife, and the kingdom with her.
As he came before the palace and saw the golden road, he stopped to look at it, and he thought to himself, "It is a pity to ride upon this beautiful road"; so he turned aside and rode on the right-hand side of it.
But when he came to the gate, the guards, who had seen the road he took, said to him, he could not be what he said he was, and must go about his business.
The second prince set out soon afterwards on the same errand; and when he came to the golden road, and his horse had set one foot upon it, he stopped to look at it, and thought it very beautiful, and said to himself, "What a pity it is that anything should tread here!"
Then he too turned aside and rode on the left side of it.
But when he came to the gate the guards said he was not the true prince, and that he too must go away about his business; and away he went.
Now when the full year was come round, the third brother left the forest in which he had lain hid for fear of his father"s anger, and set out in search of his betrothed bride.
So he journeyed on, thinking of her all the way, and rode so quickly that he did not even see what the road was made of, but went with his horse straight over it; and as he came to the gate it flew open, and the princess welcomed him with joy, and said he was her deliverer, and should now be her husband and lord of the kingdom.
When the first joy at their meeting was over, the princess told him she had heard of his father having forgiven him, and of his wish to have him home again: so, before his wedding with the princess, he went to visit his father, taking her with him.
Then he told him everything; how his brothers had cheated and robbed him, and yet that he had borne all those wrongs for the love of his father.
And the old king was very angry, and wanted to punish his wicked sons; but they made their escape, and got into a ship and sailed away over the wide sea, and where they went to nobody knew and nobody cared.
And now the old king gathered together his court, and asked all his kingdom to come and celebrate the wedding of his son and the princess.
And young and old, noble and squire, gentle and simple, came at once on the summons; and among the rest came the friendly dwarf, with the sugarloaf hat, and a new scarlet cloak.
And the wedding was held, and the merry bells run.
And all the good people they danced and they sung, And feasted and frolick"d I can"t tell how long.
A long time ago there lived a king who was famed for his wisdom through all the land.
Nothing was hidden from him, and it seemed as if news of the most secret things was brought to him through the air.
But he had a strange custom; every day after dinner, when the table was cleared, and no one else was present, a trusty servant had to bring him one more dish.
It was covered, however, and even the servant did not know what was in it, neither did anyone know, for the king never took off the cover to eat of it until he was quite alone.
This had gone on for a long time, when one day the servant, who took away the dish, was overcome with such curiosity that he could not help carrying the dish into his room.
When he had carefully locked the door, he lifted up the cover, and saw a white snake lying on the dish.
But when he saw it he could not deny himself the pleasure of tasting it, so he cut of a little bit and put it into his mouth.
No sooner had it touched his tongue than he heard a strange whispering of little voices outside his window.
He went and listened, and then noticed that it was the sparrows who were chattering together, and telling one another of all kinds of things which they had seen in the fields and woods.
Eating the snake had given him power of understanding the language of animals.
Now it so happened that on this very day the queen lost her most beautiful ring, and suspicion of having stolen it fell upon this trusty servant, who was allowed to go everywhere.
The king ordered the man to be brought before him, and threatened with angry words that unless he could before the morrow point out the thief, he himself should be looked upon as guilty and executed.
In vain he declared his innocence; he was dismissed with no better answer.
In his trouble and fear he went down into the courtyard and took thought how to help himself out of his trouble.
Now some ducks were sitting together quietly by a brook and taking their rest; and, whilst they were making their feathers smooth with their bills, they were having a confidential conversation together.
The servant stood by and listened.
They were telling one another of all the places where they had been waddling about all the morning, and what good food they had found; and one said in a pitiful tone: "Something lies heavy on my stomach; as I was eating in haste I swallowed a ring which lay under the queen"s window."
The servant at once seized her by the neck, carried her to the kitchen, and said to the cook: "Here is a fine duck; pray, kill her."
"Yes," said the cook, and weighed her in his hand; "she has spared no trouble to fatten herself, and has been waiting to be roasted long enough."
So he cut off her head, and as she was being dressed for the spit, the queen"s ring was found inside her.
The servant could now easily prove his innocence; and the king, to make amends for the wrong, allowed him to ask a favour, and promised him the best place in the court that he could wish for.
The servant refused everything, and only asked for a horse and some money for travelling, as he had a mind to see the world and go about a little.
When his request was granted he set out on his way, and one day came to a pond, where he saw three fishes caught in the reeds and gasping for water.
Now, though it is said that fishes are dumb, he heard them lamenting that they must perish so miserably, and, as he had a kind heart, he got off his horse and put the three prisoners back into the water.
They leapt with delight, put out their heads, and cried to him: "We will remember you and repay you for saving us!"
He rode on, and after a while it seemed to him that he heard a voice in the sand at his feet.
He listened, and heard an ant-king complain: "Why cannot folks, with their clumsy beasts, keep off our bodies?
That stupid horse, with his heavy hoofs, has been treading down my people without mercy!"
So he turned on to a side path and the ant-king cried out to him: "We will remember you--one good turn deserves another!"
The path led him into a wood, and there he saw two old ravens standing by their nest, and throwing out their young ones.
"Out with you, you idle, good-for-nothing creatures!" cried they; "we cannot find food for you any longer; you are big enough, and can provide for yourselves."
But the poor young ravens lay upon the ground, flapping their wings, and crying: "Oh, what helpless chicks we are!
We must shift for ourselves, and yet we cannot fly!
What can we do, but lie here and starve?"
So the good young fellow alighted and killed his horse with his sword, and gave it to them for food.
Then they came hopping up to it, satisfied their hunger, and cried: "We will remember you--one good turn deserves another!"
And now he had to use his own legs, and when he had walked a long way, he came to a large city.
There was a great noise and crowd in the streets, and a man rode up on horseback, crying aloud: "The king"s daughter wants a husband; but whoever seeks her hand must perform a hard task, and if he does not succeed he will forfeit his life."
Many had already made the attempt, but in vain; nevertheless when the youth saw the king"s daughter he was so overcome by her great beauty that he forgot all danger, went before the king, and declared himself a suitor.
So he was led out to the sea, and a gold ring was thrown into it, before his eyes; then the king ordered him to fetch this ring up from the bottom of the sea, and added: "If you come up again without it you will be thrown in again and again until you perish amid the waves."
All the people grieved for the handsome youth; then they went away, leaving him alone by the sea.
He stood on the shore and considered what he should do, when suddenly he saw three fishes come swimming towards him, and they were the very fishes whose lives he had saved.
The one in the middle held a mussel in its mouth, which it laid on the shore at the youth"s feet, and when he had taken it up and opened it, there lay the gold ring in the shell.
Full of joy he took it to the king and expected that he would grant him the promised reward.
But when the proud princess perceived that he was not her equal in birth, she scorned him, and required him first to perform another task.
She went down into the garden and strewed with her own hands ten sacksful of millet-seed on the grass; then she said: "Tomorrow morning before sunrise these must be picked up, and not a single grain be wanting."
The youth sat down in the garden and considered how it might be possible to perform this task, but he could think of nothing, and there he sat sorrowfully awaiting the break of day, when he should be led to death.
But as soon as the first rays of the sun shone into the garden he saw all the ten sacks standing side by side, quite full, and not a single grain was missing.
The ant-king had come in the night with thousands and thousands of ants, and the grateful creatures had by great industry picked up all the millet-seed and gathered them into the sacks.
Presently the king"s daughter herself came down into the garden, and was amazed to see that the young man had done the task she had given him.
But she could not yet conquer her proud heart, and said: "Although he has performed both the tasks, he shall not be my husband until he had brought me an apple from the Tree of Life."
The youth did not know where the Tree of Life stood, but he set out, and would have gone on for ever, as long as his legs would carry him, though he had no hope of finding it.
After he had wandered through three kingdoms, he came one evening to a wood, and lay down under a tree to sleep.
But he heard a rustling in the branches, and a golden apple fell into his hand.
At the same time three ravens flew down to him, perched themselves upon his knee, and said: "We are the three young ravens whom you saved from starving; when we had grown big, and heard that you were seeking the Golden Apple, we flew over the sea to the end of the world, where the Tree of Life stands, and have brought you the apple."
The youth, full of joy, set out homewards, and took the Golden Apple to the king"s beautiful daughter, who had now no more excuses left to make.
They cut the Apple of Life in two and ate it together; and then her heart became full of love for him, and they lived in undisturbed happiness to a great age.
Once in summer-time the bear and the wolf were walking in the forest, and the bear heard a bird singing so beautifully that he said: "Brother wolf, what bird is it that sings so well?"
"That is the King of birds," said the wolf, "before whom we must bow down."
In reality the bird was the willow-wren.
"IF that"s the case," said the bear, "I should very much like to see his royal palace; come, take me thither."
"That is not done quite as you seem to think," said the wolf; "you must wait until the Queen comes," Soon afterwards, the Queen arrived with some food in her beak, and the lord King came too, and they began to feed their young ones.
The bear would have liked to go at once, but the wolf held him back by the sleeve, and said: "No, you must wait until the lord and lady Queen have gone away again."
So they took stock of the hole where the nest lay, and trotted away.
The bear, however, could not rest until he had seen the royal palace, and when a short time had passed, went to it again.
The King and Queen had just flown out, so he peeped in and saw five or six young ones lying there.
"Is that the royal palace?" cried the bear; "it is a wretched palace, and you are not King"s children, you are disreputable children!"
When the young wrens heard that, they were frightfully angry, and screamed: "No, that we are not!
Our parents are honest people!
Bear, you will have to pay for that!"
The bear and the wolf grew uneasy, and turned back and went into their holes.
The young willow-wrens, however, continued to cry and scream, and when their parents again brought food they said: "We will not so much as touch one fly"s leg, no, not if we were dying of hunger, until you have settled whether we are respectable children or not; the bear has been here and has insulted us!"
Then the old King said: "Be easy, he shall be punished," and he at once flew with the Queen to the bear"s cave, and called in: "Old Growler, why have you insulted my children?
You shall suffer for it--we will punish you by a bloody war."
Thus war was announced to the Bear, and all four-footed animals were summoned to take part in it, oxen, asses, cows, deer, and every other animal the earth contained.
And the willow-wren summoned everything which flew in the air, not only birds, large and small, but midges, and hornets, bees and flies had to come.
When the time came for the war to begin, the willow-wren sent out spies to discover who was the enemy"s commander-in-chief.
The gnat, who was the most crafty, flew into the forest where the enemy was assembled, and hid herself beneath a leaf of the tree where the password was to be announced.
There stood the bear, and he called the fox before him and said: "Fox, you are the most cunning of all animals, you shall be general and lead us."
"Good," said the fox, "but what signal shall we agree upon?"
No one knew that, so the fox said: "I have a fine long bushy tail, which almost looks like a plume of red feathers.
When I lift my tail up quite high, all is going well, and you must charge; but if I let it hang down, run away as fast as you can."
When the gnat had heard that, she flew away again, and revealed everything, down to the minutest detail, to the willow-wren.
When day broke, and the battle was to begin, all the four-footed animals came running up with such a noise that the earth trembled.
The willow-wren with his army also came flying through the air with such a humming, and whirring, and swarming that every one was uneasy and afraid, and on both sides they advanced against each other.
But the willow-wren sent down the hornet, with orders to settle beneath the fox"s tail, and sting with all his might.
When the fox felt the first string, he started so that he one leg, from pain, but he bore it, and still kept his tail high in the air; at the second sting, he was forced to put it down for a moment; at the third, he could hold out no longer, screamed, and put his tail between his legs.
When the animals saw that, they thought all was lost, and began to flee, each into his hole, and the birds had won the battle.
Then the King and Queen flew home to their children and cried: "Children, rejoice, eat and drink to your heart"s content, we have won the battle!"
But the young wrens said: "We will not eat yet, the bear must come to the nest, and beg for pardon and say that we are honourable children, before we will do that."
Then the willow-wren flew to the bear"s hole and cried: "Growler, you are to come to the nest to my children, and beg their pardon, or else every rib of your body shall be broken."
So the bear crept thither in the greatest fear, and begged their pardon.
And now at last the young wrens were satisfied, and sat down together and ate and drank, and made merry till quite late into the night.
There was once upon a time an old goat who had seven little kids, and loved them with all the love of a mother for her children.
One day she wanted to go into the forest and fetch some food.
So she called all seven to her and said: "Dear children, I have to go into the forest, be on your guard against the wolf; if he comes in, he will devour you all--skin, hair, and everything.
The wretch often disguises himself, but you will know him at once by his rough voice and his black feet."
The kids said: "Dear mother, we will take good care of ourselves; you may go away without any anxiety."
Then the old one bleated, and went on her way with an easy mind.
It was not long before someone knocked at the house-door and called: "Open the door, dear children; your mother is here, and has brought something back with her for each of you."
But the little kids knew that it was the wolf, by the rough voice.
"We will not open the door," cried they, "you are not our mother.
She has a soft, pleasant voice, but your voice is rough; you are the wolf!"
Then the wolf went away to a shopkeeper and bought himself a great lump of chalk, ate this and made his voice soft with it.
Then he came back, knocked at the door of the house, and called: "Open the door, dear children, your mother is here and has brought something back with her for each of you."
But the wolf had laid his black paws against the window, and the children saw them and cried: "We will not open the door, our mother has not black feet like you: you are the wolf!"
Then the wolf ran to a baker and said: "I have hurt my feet, rub some dough over them for me."
And when the baker had rubbed his feet over, he ran to the miller and said: "Strew some white meal over my feet for me."
The miller thought to himself: "The wolf wants to deceive someone," and refused; but the wolf said: "If you will not do it, I will devour you."
Then the miller was afraid, and made his paws white for him.
Truly, this is the way of mankind.
So now the wretch went for the third time to the house-door, knocked at it and said: "Open the door for me, children, your dear little mother has come home, and has brought every one of you something back from the forest with her."
The little kids cried: "First show us your paws that we may know if you are our dear little mother."
Then he put his paws in through the window and when the kids saw that they were white, they believed that all he said was true, and opened the door.
But who should come in but the wolf!
They were terrified and wanted to hide themselves.
One sprang under the table, the second into the bed, the third into the stove, the fourth into the kitchen, the fifth into the cupboard, the sixth under the washing-bowl, and the seventh into the clock-case.
But the wolf found them all, and used no great ceremony; one after the other he swallowed them down his throat.
The youngest, who was in the clock-case, was the only one he did not find.
When the wolf had satisfied his appetite he took himself off, laid himself down under a tree in the green meadow outside, and began to sleep.
Soon afterwards the old goat came home again from the forest.
Ah! what a sight she saw there!
The house-door stood wide open.
The table, chairs, and benches were thrown down, the washing-bowl lay broken to pieces, and the quilts and pillows were pulled off the bed.
She sought her children, but they were nowhere to be found.
She called them one after another by name, but no one answered.
At last, when she came to the youngest, a soft voice cried: "Dear mother, I am in the clock-case."
She took the kid out, and it told her that the wolf had come and had eaten all the others.
Then you may imagine how she wept over her poor children.
At length in her grief she went out, and the youngest kid ran with her.
When they came to the meadow, there lay the wolf by the tree and snored so loud that the branches shook.
She looked at him on every side and saw that something was moving and struggling in his gorged belly.
"Ah, heavens," she said, "is it possible that my poor children whom he has swallowed down for his supper, can be still alive?"
Then the kid had to run home and fetch scissors, and a needle and thread, and the goat cut open the monster"s stomach, and hardly had she made one cut, than one little kid thrust its head out, and when she had cut farther, all six sprang out one after another, and were all still alive, and had suffered no injury whatever, for in his greediness the monster had swallowed them down whole.
What rejoicing there was!
They embraced their dear mother, and jumped like a tailor at his wedding.
The mother, however, said: "Now go and look for some big stones, and we will fill the wicked beast"s stomach with them while he is still asleep."
Then the seven kids dragged the stones thither with all speed, and put as many of them into this stomach as they could get in; and the mother sewed him up again in the greatest haste, so that he was not aware of anything and never once stirred.
When the wolf at length had had his fill of sleep, he got on his legs, and as the stones in his stomach made him very thirsty, he wanted to go to a well to drink.
But when he began to walk and to move about, the stones in his stomach knocked against each other and rattled.
Then cried he:
"What rumbles and tumbles Against my poor bones?
I thought "twas six kids, But it feels like big stones."
And when he got to the well and stooped over the water to drink, the heavy stones made him fall in, and he drowned miserably.
When the seven kids saw that, they came running to the spot and cried aloud: "The wolf is dead!
The wolf is dead!" and danced for joy round about the well with their mother.
A poor woodman sat in his cottage one night, smoking his pipe by the fireside, while his wife sat by his side spinning.
"How lonely it is, wife," said he, as he puffed out a long curl of smoke, "for you and me to sit here by ourselves, without any children to play about and amuse us while other people seem so happy and merry with their children!"
"What you say is very true," said the wife, sighing, and turning round her wheel; "how happy should I be if I had but one child!
If it were ever so small--nay, if it were no bigger than my thumb--I should be very happy, and love it dearly."
Now--odd as you may think it--it came to pass that this good woman"s wish was fulfilled, just in the very way she had wished it; for, not long afterwards, she had a little boy, who was quite healthy and strong, but was not much bigger than my thumb.
So they said, "Well, we cannot say we have not got what we wished for, and, little as he is, we will love him dearly."
And they called him Thomas Thumb.
They gave him plenty of food, yet for all they could do he never grew bigger, but kept just the same size as he had been when he was born.
Still, his eyes were sharp and sparkling, and he soon showed himself to be a clever little fellow, who always knew well what he was about.
One day, as the woodman was getting ready to go into the wood to cut fuel, he said, "I wish I had someone to bring the cart after me, for I want to make haste."
"Oh, father," cried Tom, "I will take care of that; the cart shall be in the wood by the time you want it."
Then the woodman laughed, and said, "How can that be? you cannot reach up to the horse"s bridle."
"Never mind that, father," said Tom; "if my mother will only harness the horse, I will get into his ear and tell him which way to go."
"Well," said the father, "we will try for once."
When the time came the mother harnessed the horse to the cart, and put Tom into his ear; and as he sat there the little man told the beast how to go, crying out, "Go on!" and "Stop!" as he wanted: and thus the horse went on just as well as if the woodman had driven it himself into the wood.
It happened that as the horse was going a little too fast, and Tom was calling out, "Gently! gently!" two strangers came up.
"What an odd thing that is!" said one: "there is a cart going along, and I hear a carter talking to the horse, but yet I can see no one."
"That is queer, indeed," said the other; "let us follow the cart, and see where it goes."
So they went on into the wood, till at last they came to the place where the woodman was.
Then Tom Thumb, seeing his father, cried out, "See, father, here I am with the cart, all right and safe! now take me down!"
So his father took hold of the horse with one hand, and with the other took his son out of the horse"s ear, and put him down upon a straw, where he sat as merry as you please.
The two strangers were all this time looking on, and did not know what to say for wonder.
At last one took the other aside, and said, "That little urchin will make our fortune, if we can get him, and carry him about from town to town as a show; we must buy him."
So they went up to the woodman, and asked him what he would take for the little man.
"He will be better off," said they, "with us than with you."
"I won"t sell him at all," said the father; "my own flesh and blood is dearer to me than all the silver and gold in the world."
But Tom, hearing of the bargain they wanted to make, crept up his father"s coat to his shoulder and whispered in his ear, "Take the money, father, and let them have me; I"ll soon come back to you."
So the woodman at last said he would sell Tom to the strangers for a large piece of gold, and they paid the price.
"Where would you like to sit?" said one of them.
"Oh, put me on the rim of your hat; that will be a nice gallery for me; I can walk about there and see the country as we go along."
So they did as he wished; and when Tom had taken leave of his father they took him away with them.
They journeyed on till it began to be dusky, and then the little man said, "Let me get down, I"m tired."
So the man took off his hat, and put him down on a clod of earth, in a ploughed field by the side of the road.
But Tom ran about amongst the furrows, and at last slipped into an old mouse-hole.
"Good night, my masters!" said he, "I"m off! mind and look sharp after me the next time."
Then they ran at once to the place, and poked the ends of their sticks into the mouse-hole, but all in vain; Tom only crawled farther and farther in; and at last it became quite dark, so that they were forced to go their way without their prize, as sulky as could be.
When Tom found they were gone, he came out of his hiding-place.
"What dangerous walking it is," said he, "in this ploughed field!
If I were to fall from one of these great clods, I should undoubtedly break my neck."
At last, by good luck, he found a large empty snail-shell.
"This is lucky," said he, "I can sleep here very well"; and in he crept.
Just as he was falling asleep, he heard two men passing by, chatting together; and one said to the other, "How can we rob that rich parson"s house of his silver and gold?"
"I"ll tell you!" cried Tom.
"What noise was that?" said the thief, frightened; "I"m sure I heard someone speak."
They stood still listening, and Tom said, "Take me with you, and I"ll soon show you how to get the parson"s money."
"But where are you?" said they.
"Look about on the ground," answered he, "and listen where the sound comes from."
At last the thieves found him out, and lifted him up in their hands.
"You little urchin!" they said, "what can you do for us?"
"Why, I can get between the iron window-bars of the parson"s house, and throw you out whatever you want."
"That"s a good thought," said the thieves; "come along, we shall see what you can do."
When they came to the parson"s house, Tom slipped through the windowbars into the room, and then called out as loud as he could bawl, "Will you have all that is here?"
At this the thieves were frightened, and said, "Softly, softly!
Speak low, that you may not awaken anybody."
But Tom seemed as if he did not understand them, and bawled out again, "How much will you have?
Shall I throw it all out?"
Now the cook lay in the next room; and hearing a noise she raised herself up in her bed and listened.
Meantime the thieves were frightened, and ran off a little way; but at last they plucked up their hearts, and said, "The little urchin is only trying to make fools of us."
So they came back and whispered softly to him, saying, "Now let us have no more of your roguish jokes; but throw us out some of the money."
Then Tom called out as loud as he could, "Very well! hold your hands! here it comes."
The cook heard this quite plain, so she sprang out of bed, and ran to open the door.
The thieves ran off as if a wolf was at their tails: and the maid, having groped about and found nothing, went away for a light.
By the time she came back, Tom had slipped off into the barn; and when she had looked about and searched every hole and corner, and found nobody, she went to bed, thinking she must have been dreaming with her eyes open.
The little man crawled about in the hay-loft, and at last found a snug place to finish his night"s rest in; so he laid himself down, meaning to sleep till daylight, and then find his way home to his father and mother.
But alas! how woefully he was undone! what crosses and sorrows happen to us all in this world!
The cook got up early, before daybreak, to feed the cows; and going straight to the hay-loft, carried away a large bundle of hay, with the little man in the middle of it, fast asleep.
He still, however, slept on, and did not awake till he found himself in the mouth of the cow; for the cook had put the hay into the cow"s rick, and the cow had taken Tom up in a mouthful of it.
"Good lack-a-day!" said he, "how came I to tumble into the mill?"
But he soon found out where he really was; and was forced to have all his wits about him, that he might not get between the cow"s teeth, and so be crushed to death.
At last down he went into her stomach.
"It is rather dark," said he; "they forgot to build windows in this room to let the sun in; a candle would be no bad thing."
Though he made the best of his bad luck, he did not like his quarters at all; and the worst of it was, that more and more hay was always coming down, and the space left for him became smaller and smaller.
At last he cried out as loud as he could, "Don"t bring me any more hay!
Don"t bring me any more hay!"
The maid happened to be just then milking the cow; and hearing someone speak, but seeing nobody, and yet being quite sure it was the same voice that she had heard in the night, she was so frightened that she fell off her stool, and overset the milk-pail.
As soon as she could pick herself up out of the dirt, she ran off as fast as she could to her master the parson, and said, "Sir, sir, the cow is talking!"
But the parson said, "Woman, thou art surely mad!"
However, he went with her into the cow-house, to try and see what was the matter.
Scarcely had they set foot on the threshold, when Tom called out, "Don"t bring me any more hay!"
Then the parson himself was frightened; and thinking the cow was surely bewitched, told his man to kill her on the spot.
So the cow was killed, and cut up; and the stomach, in which Tom lay, was thrown out upon a dunghill.
Tom soon set himself to work to get out, which was not a very easy task; but at last, just as he had made room to get his head out, fresh ill-luck befell him.
A hungry wolf sprang out, and swallowed up the whole stomach, with Tom in it, at one gulp, and ran away.
Tom, however, was still not disheartened; and thinking the wolf would not dislike having some chat with him as he was going along, he called out, "My good friend, I can show you a famous treat."
"Where"s that?" said the wolf.
"In such and such a house," said Tom, describing his own father"s house.
"You can crawl through the drain into the kitchen and then into the pantry, and there you will find cakes, ham, beef, cold chicken, roast pig, apple-dumplings, and everything that your heart can wish."
The wolf did not want to be asked twice; so that very night he went to the house and crawled through the drain into the kitchen, and then into the pantry, and ate and drank there to his heart"s content.
As soon as he had had enough he wanted to get away; but he had eaten so much that he could not go out by the same way he came in.
This was just what Tom had reckoned upon; and now he began to set up a great shout, making all the noise he could.
"Will you be easy?" said the wolf; "you"ll awaken everybody in the house if you make such a clatter."
"What"s that to me?" said the little man; "you have had your frolic, now I"ve a mind to be merry myself"; and he began, singing and shouting as loud as he could.
The woodman and his wife, being awakened by the noise, peeped through a crack in the door; but when they saw a wolf was there, you may well suppose that they were sadly frightened; and the woodman ran for his axe, and gave his wife a scythe.
"Do you stay behind," said the woodman, "and when I have knocked him on the head you must rip him up with the scythe."
Tom heard all this, and cried out, "Father, father!
I am here, the wolf has swallowed me."
And his father said, "Heaven be praised! we have found our dear child again"; and he told his wife not to use the scythe for fear she should hurt him.
Then he aimed a great blow, and struck the wolf on the head, and killed him on the spot! and when he was dead they cut open his body, and set Tommy free.
"Ah!" said the father, "what fears we have had for you!"
"Yes, father," answered he; "I have travelled all over the world, I think, in one way or other, since we parted; and now I am very glad to come home and get fresh air again."
"Why, where have you been?" said his father.
"I have been in a mouse-hole--and in a snail-shell--and down a cow"s throat-- and in the wolf"s belly; and yet here I am again, safe and sound."
"Well," said they, "you are come back, and we will not sell you again for all the riches in the world."
Then they hugged and kissed their dear little son, and gave him plenty to eat and drink, for he was very hungry; and then they fetched new clothes for him, for his old ones had been quite spoiled on his journey.
So Master Thumb stayed at home with his father and mother, in peace; for though he had been so great a traveller, and had done and seen so many fine things, and was fond enough of telling the whole story, he always agreed that, after all, there"s no place like HOME!
IN the garden all the apple-trees were in blossom.
They had hastened to bring forth flowers before they got green leaves, and in the yard all the ducklings walked up and down, and the cat too: it basked in the sun and licked the sunshine from its own paws.
And when one looked at the fields, how beautifully the corn stood and how green it shone, without comparison! and there was a twittering and a fluttering of all the little birds, as if the day were a great festival; and so it was, for it was Sunday.
All the bells were ringing, and all the people went to church, looking cheerful, and dressed in their best clothes.
There was a look of cheerfulness on everything.
The day was so warm and beautiful that one might well have said: "God's kindness to us men is beyond all limits."
But inside the church the pastor stood in the pulpit, and spoke very loudly and angrily.
He said that all men were wicked, and God would punish them for their sins, and that the wicked, when they died, would be cast into hell, to burn for ever and ever.
He spoke very excitedly, saying that their evil propensities would not be destroyed, nor would the fire be extinguished, and they should never find rest.
That was terrible to hear, and he said it in such a tone of conviction; he described hell to them as a miserable hole where all the refuse of the world gathers.
There was no air beside the hot burning sulphur flame, and there was no ground under their feet; they, the wicked ones, sank deeper and deeper, while eternal silence surrounded them!
It was dreadful to hear all that, for the preacher spoke from his heart, and all the people in the church were terrified.
Meanwhile, the birds sang merrily outside, and the sun was shining so beautifully warm, it seemed as though every little flower said: "God, Thy kindness towards us all is without limits."
Indeed, outside it was not at all like the pastor's sermon.
The same evening, upon going to bed, the pastor noticed his wife sitting there quiet and pensive.
"What is the matter with you?" he asked her.
"Well, the matter with me is," she said, "that I cannot collect my thoughts, and am unable to grasp the meaning of what you said to-day in church- that there are so many wicked people, and that they should burn eternally.
Alas! eternally- how long!
I am only a woman and a sinner before God, but I should not have the heart to let even the worst sinner burn for ever, and how could our Lord to do so, who is so infinitely good, and who knows how the wickedness comes from without and within?
No, I am unable to imagine that, although you say so."
It was autumn; the trees dropped their leaves, the earnest and severe pastor sat at the bedside of a dying person.
A pious, faithful soul closed her eyes for ever; she was the pastor's wife. ..."If any one shall find rest in the grave and mercy before our Lord you shall certainly do so," said the pastor.
He folded her hands and read a psalm over the dead woman.
She was buried; two large tears rolled over the cheeks of the earnest man, and in the parsonage it was empty and still, for its sun had set for ever.
She had gone home.
It was night.
A cold wind swept over the pastor's head; he opened his eyes, and it seemed to him as if the moon was shining into his room.
It was not so, however; there was a being standing before his bed, and looking like the ghost of his deceased wife.
She fixed her eyes upon him with such a kind and sad expression, just as if she wished to say something to him.
The pastor raised himself in bed and stretched his arms towards her, saying, "Not even you can find eternal rest!
You suffer, you best and most pious woman?"
The dead woman nodded her head as if to say "Yes," and put her hand on her breast.
"And can I not obtain rest in the grave for you?"
"Yes," was the answer.
"And how?"
"Give me one hair- only one single hair- from the head of the sinner for whom the fire shall never be extinguished, of the sinner whom God will condemn to eternal punishment in hell."
"Yes, one ought to be able to redeem you so easily, you pure, pious woman," he said.
"Follow me," said the dead woman.
"It is thus granted to us.
By my side you will be able to fly wherever your thoughts wish to go.
Invisible to men, we shall penetrate into their most secret chambers; but with sure hand you must find out him who is destined to eternal torture, and before the cock crows he must be found!"
As quickly as if carried by the winged thoughts they were in the great city, and from the walls the names of the deadly sins shone in flaming letters: pride, avarice, drunkenness, wantonness- in short, the whole seven-coloured bow of sin.
"Yes, therein, as I believed, as I knew it," said the pastor, "are living those who are abandoned to the eternal fire."
And they were standing before the magnificently illuminated gate; the broad steps were adorned with carpets and flowers, and dance music was sounding through the festive halls.
A footman dressed in silk and velvet stood with a large silver-mounted rod near the entrance.
"Our ball can compare favourably with the king's," he said, and turned with contempt towards the gazing crowd in the street.
What he thought was sufficiently expressed in his features and movements: "Miserable beggars, who are looking in, you are nothing in comparison to me."
"Pride," said the dead woman; "do you see him?"
"The footman?" asked the pastor.
"He is but a poor fool, and not doomed to be tortured eternally by fire!"
"Only a fool!"
It sounded through the whole house of pride: they were all fools there.
Then they flew within the four naked walls of the miser.
Lean as a skeleton, trembling with cold, and hunger, the old man was clinging with all his thoughts to his money.
They saw him jump up feverishly from his miserable couch and take a loose stone out of the wall; there lay gold coins in an old stocking.
They saw him anxiously feeling over an old ragged coat in which pieces of gold were sewn, and his clammy fingers trembled.
"He is ill!
That is madness- a joyless madness- besieged by fear and dreadful dreams!"
They quickly went away and came before the beds of the criminals; these unfortunate people slept side by side, in long rows.
Like a ferocious animal, one of them rose out of his sleep and uttered a horrible cry, and gave his comrade a violent dig in the ribs with his pointed elbow, and this one turned round in his sleep: "Be quiet, monster- sleep!
This happens every night!"
"Every night!" repeated the other.
"Yes, every night he comes and tortures me!
In my violence I have done this and that.
I was born with an evil mind, which has brought me hither for the second time; but if I have done wrong I suffer punishment for it.
One thing, however, I have not yet confessed.
When I came out a little while ago, and passed by the yard of my former master, evil thoughts rose within me when I remembered this and that.
I struck a match a little bit on the wall; probably it came a little too close to the thatched roof.
All burnt down- a great heat rose, such as sometimes overcomes me.
I myself helped to rescue cattle and things, nothing alive burnt, except a flight of pigeons, which flew into the fire, and the yard dog, of which I had not thought; one could hear him howl out of the fire, and this howling I still hear when I wish to sleep; and when I have fallen asleep, the great rough dog comes and places himself upon me, and howls, presses, and tortures me.
Now listen to what I tell you!
You can snore; you are snoring the whole night, and I hardly a quarter of an hour!"
And the blood rose to the head of the excited criminal; he threw himself upon his comrade, and beat him with his clenced fist in the face.
"Wicked Matz has become mad again!" they said amongst themselves.
The other criminals seized him, wrestled with him, and bent him double, so that his head rested between his knees, and they tied him, so that the blood almost came out of his eyes and out of all his pores.
"You are killing the unfortunate man," said the pastor, and as he stretched out his hand to protect him who already suffered too much, the scene changed.
They flew through rich halls and wretched hovels; wantonness and envy, all the deadly sins, passed before them.
An angel of justice read their crimes and their defence; the latter was not a brilliant one, but it was read before God, Who reads the heart, Who knows everything, the wickedness that comes from within and from without, Who is mercy and love personified.
The pastor's hand trembled; he dared not stretch it out, he did not venture to pull a hair out of the sinner's head.
And tears gushed from his eyes like a stream of mercy and love, the cooling waters of which extinguished the eternal fire of hell.
Just then the cock crowed.
"Father of all mercy, grant Thou to her the peace that I was unable to procure for her!"
"I have it now!" said the dead woman.
"It was your hard words, your despair of mankind, your gloomy belief in God and His creation, which drove me to you.
Learn to know mankind!
Even in the wicked one lives a part of God- and this extinguishes and conquers the flame of hell!"
The pastor felt a kiss on his lips; a gleam of light surrounded him- God's bright sun shone into the room, and his wife, alive, sweet and full of love, awoke him from a dream which God had sent him!
NEAR the grass-covered rampart which encircles Copenhagen lies a great red house.
Balsams and other flowers greet us from the long rows of windows in the house, whose interior is sufficiently poverty-stricken; and poor and old are the people who inhabit it.
The building is the Warton Almshouse.
Look! at the window there leans an old maid.
She plucks the withered leaf from the balsam, and looks at the grass-covered rampart, on which many children are playing.
What is the old maid thinking of?
A whole life drama is unfolding itself before her inward gaze.
"The poor little children, how happy they are- how merrily they play and romp together!
What red cheeks and what angels' eyes! but they have no shoes nor stockings.
They dance on the green rampart, just on the place where, according to the old story, the ground always sank in, and where a sportive, frolicsome child had been lured by means of flowers, toys and sweetmeats into an open grave ready dug for it, and which was afterwards closed over the child; and from that moment, the old story says, the ground gave way no longer, the mound remained firm and fast, and was quickly covered with the green turf.
The little people who now play on that spot know nothing of the old tale, else would they fancy they heard a child crying deep below the earth, and the dewdrops on each blade of grass would be to them tears of woe.
Nor do they know anything of the Danish King who here, in the face of the coming foe, took an oath before all his trembling courtiers that he would hold out with the citizens of his capital, and die here in his nest; they know nothing of the men who have fought here, or of the women who from here have drenched with boiling water the enemy, clad in white, and 'biding in the snow to surprise the city.
"No! the poor little ones are playing with light, childish spirits.
Play on, play on, thou little maiden!
Soon the years will come- yes, those glorious years.
The priestly hands have been laid on the candidates for confirmation; hand in hand they walk on the green rampart.
Thou hast a white frock on; it has cost thy mother much labor, and yet it is only cut down for thee out of an old larger dress!
You will also wear a red shawl; and what if it hang too far down?
People will only see how large, how very large it is.
You are thinking of your dress, and of the Giver of all good- so glorious is it to wander on the green rampart!
"And the years roll by; they have no lack of dark days, but you have your cheerful young spirit, and you have gained a friend- you know not how.
You met, oh, how often!
You walk together on the rampart in the fresh spring, on the high days and holidays, when all the world come out to walk upon the ramparts, and all the bells of the church steeples seem to be singing a song of praise for the coming spring.
"Scarcely have the violets come forth, but there on the rampart, just opposite the beautiful Castle of Rosenberg, there is a tree bright with the first green buds.
Every year this tree sends forth fresh green shoots.
Alas!
It is not so with the human heart!
Dark mists, more in number than those that cover the northern skies, cloud the human heart.
Poor child! thy friend's bridal chamber is a black coffin, and thou becomest an old maid.
From the almshouse window, behind the balsams, thou shalt look on the merry children at play, and shalt see thine own history renewed."
And that is the life drama that passes before the old maid while she looks out upon the rampart, the green, sunny rampart, where the children, with their red cheeks and bare shoeless feet, are rejoicing merrily, like the other free little birds.
"WHENEVER a good child dies, an angel of God comes down from heaven, takes the dead child in his arms, spreads out his great white wings, and flies with him over all the places which the child had loved during his life.
Then he gathers a large handful of flowers, which he carries up to the Almighty, that they may bloom more brightly in heaven than they do on earth.
And the Almighty presses the flowers to His heart, but He kisses the flower that pleases Him best, and it receives a voice, and is able to join the song of the chorus of bliss."
These words were spoken by an angel of God, as he carried a dead child up to heaven, and the child listened as if in a dream.
Then they passed over well-known spots, where the little one had often played, and through beautiful gardens full of lovely flowers.
"Which of these shall we take with us to heaven to be transplanted there?" asked the angel.
Close by grew a slender, beautiful, rose-bush, but some wicked hand had broken the stem, and the half-opened rosebuds hung faded and withered on the trailing branches.
"Poor rose-bush!" said the child, "let us take it with us to heaven, that it may bloom above in God's garden."
The angel took up the rose-bush; then he kissed the child, and the little one half opened his eyes.
The angel gathered also some beautiful flowers, as well as a few humble buttercups and heart's-ease.
"Now we have flowers enough," said the child; but the angel only nodded, he did not fly upward to heaven.
It was night, and quite still in the great town.
Here they remained, and the angel hovered over a small, narrow street, in which lay a large heap of straw, ashes, and sweepings from the houses of people who had removed.
There lay fragments of plates, pieces of plaster, rags, old hats, and other rubbish not pleasant to see.
Amidst all this confusion, the angel pointed to the pieces of a broken flower-pot, and to a lump of earth which had fallen out of it.
The earth had been kept from falling to pieces by the roots of a withered field-flower, which had been thrown amongst the rubbish.
"We will take this with us," said the angel, "I will tell you why as we fly along."
And as they flew the angel related the history.
"Down in that narrow lane, in a low cellar, lived a poor sick boy; he had been afflicted from his childhood, and even in his best days he could just manage to walk up and down the room on crutches once or twice, but no more.
During some days in summer, the sunbeams would lie on the floor of the cellar for about half an hour.
In this spot the poor sick boy would sit warming himself in the sunshine, and watching the red blood through his delicate fingers as he held them before his face.
Then he would say he had been out, yet he knew nothing of the green forest in its spring verdure, till a neighbor's son brought him a green bough from a beech-tree.
This he would place over his head, and fancy that he was in the beech-wood while the sun shone, and the birds carolled gayly.
One spring day the neighbor's boy brought him some field-flowers, and among them was one to which the root still adhered.
This he carefully planted in a flower-pot, and placed in a window-seat near his bed.
And the flower had been planted by a fortunate hand, for it grew, put forth fresh shoots, and blossomed every year.
It became a splendid flower-garden to the sick boy, and his little treasure upon earth.
He watered it, and cherished it, and took care it should have the benefit of every sunbeam that found its way into the cellar, from the earliest morning ray to the evening sunset.
The flower entwined itself even in his dreams- for him it bloomed, for him spread its perfume.
And it gladdened his eyes, and to the flower he turned, even in death, when the Lord called him.
He has been one year with God.
During that time the flower has stood in the window, withered and forgotten, till at length cast out among the sweepings into the street, on the day of the lodgers' removal.
And this poor flower, withered and faded as it is, we have added to our nosegay, because it gave more real joy than the most beautiful flower in the garden of a queen."
"But how do you know all this?" asked the child whom the angel was carrying to heaven.
"I know it," said the angel, "because I myself was the poor sick boy who walked upon crutches, and I know my own flower well."
Then the child opened his eyes and looked into the glorious happy face of the angel, and at the same moment they found themselves in that heavenly home where all is happiness and joy.
And God pressed the dead child to His heart, and wings were given him so that he could fly with the angel, hand in hand.
Then the Almighty pressed all the flowers to His heart; but He kissed the withered field-flower, and it received a voice.
Then it joined in the song of the angels, who surrounded the throne, some near, and others in a distant circle, but all equally happy.
They all joined in the chorus of praise, both great and small,- the good, happy child, and the poor field-flower, that once lay withered and cast away on a heap of rubbish in a narrow, dark street.
ANNE LISBETH was a beautiful young woman, with a red and white complexion, glittering white teeth, and clear soft eyes; and her footstep was light in the dance, but her mind was lighter still.
She had a little child, not at all pretty; so he was put out to be nursed by a laborer's wife, and his mother went to the count's castle.
She sat in splendid rooms, richly decorated with silk and velvet; not a breath of air was allowed to blow upon her, and no one was allowed to speak to her harshly, for she was nurse to the count's child.
He was fair and delicate as a prince, and beautiful as an angel; and how she loved this child!
Her own boy was provided for by being at the laborer's where the mouth watered more frequently than the pot boiled, and where in general no one was at home to take care of the child.
Then he would cry, but what nobody knows nobody cares for; so he would cry till he was tired, and then fall asleep; and while we are asleep we can feel neither hunger nor thirst.
Ah, yes; sleep is a capital invention.
As years went on, Anne Lisbeth's child grew apace like weeds, although they said his growth had been stunted.
He had become quite a member of the family in which he dwelt; they received money to keep him, so that his mother got rid of him altogether.
She had become quite a lady; she had a comfortable home of her own in the town; and out of doors, when she went for a walk, she wore a bonnet; but she never walked out to see the laborer: that was too far from the town, and, indeed, she had nothing to go for, the boy now belonged to these laboring people.
He had food, and he could also do something towards earning his living; he took care of Mary's red cow, for he knew how to tend cattle and make himself useful.
The great dog by the yard gate of a nobleman's mansion sits proudly on the top of his kennel when the sun shines, and barks at every one that passes; but if it rains, he creeps into his house, and there he is warm and dry.
Anne Lisbeth's boy also sat in the sunshine on the top of the fence, cutting out a little toy.
If it was spring-time, he knew of three strawberry-plants in blossom, which would certainly bear fruit.
This was his most hopeful thought, though it often came to nothing.
And he had to sit out in the rain in the worst weather, and get wet to the skin, and let the cold wind dry the clothes on his back afterwards.
If he went near the farmyard belonging to the count, he was pushed and knocked about, for the men and the maids said he was so horrible ugly; but he was used to all this, for nobody loved him.
This was how the world treated Anne Lisbeth's boy, and how could it be otherwise.
It was his fate to be beloved by no one.
Hitherto he had been a land crab; the land at last cast him adrift.
He went to sea in a wretched vessel, and sat at the helm, while the skipper sat over the grog-can.
He was dirty and ugly, half-frozen and half-starved; he always looked as if he never had enough to eat, which was really the case.
Late in the autumn, when the weather was rough, windy, and wet, and the cold penetrated through the thickest clothing, especially at sea, a wretched boat went out to sea with only two men on board, or, more correctly, a man and a half, for it was the skipper and his boy.
There had only been a kind of twilight all day, and it soon grew quite dark, and so bitterly cold, that the skipper took a dram to warm him.
The bottle was old, and the glass too.
It was perfect in the upper part, but the foot was broken off, and it had therefore been fixed upon a little carved block of wood, painted blue.
A dram is a great comfort, and two are better still, thought the skipper, while the boy sat at the helm, which he held fast in his hard seamed hands.
He was ugly, and his hair was matted, and he looked crippled and stunted; they called him the field-laborer's boy, though in the church register he was entered as Anne Lisbeth's son.
The wind cut through the rigging, and the boat cut through the sea.
The sails, filled by the wind, swelled out and carried them along in wild career.
It was wet and rough above and below, and might still be worse.
Hold! what is that?
What has struck the boat?
Was it a waterspout, or a heavy sea rolling suddenly upon them?
"Heaven help us!" cried the boy at the helm, as the boat heeled over and lay on its beam ends.
It had struck on a rock, which rose from the depths of the sea, and sank at once, like an old shoe in a puddle.
"It sank at once with mouse and man," as the saying is.
There might have been mice on board, but only one man and a half, the skipper and the laborer's boy.
No one saw it but the skimming sea-gulls and the fishes beneath the water; and even they did not see it properly, for they darted back with terror as the boat filled with water and sank.
There it lay, scarcely a fathom below the surface, and those two were provided for, buried, and forgotten.
The glass with the foot of blue wood was the only thing that did not sink, for the wood floated and the glass drifted away to be cast upon the shore and broken; where and when, is indeed of no consequence.
It had served its purpose, and it had been loved, which Anne Lisbeth's boy had not been.
But in heaven no soul will be able to say, "Never loved."
Anne Lisbeth had now lived in the town many years; she was called "Madame," and felt dignified in consequence; she remembered the old, noble days, in which she had driven in the carriage, and had associated with countess and baroness.
Her beautiful, noble child had been a dear angel, and possessed the kindest heart; he had loved her so much, and she had loved him in return; they had kissed and loved each other, and the boy had been her joy, her second life.
Now he was fourteen years of age, tall, handsome, and clever.
She had not seen him since she carried him in her arms; neither had she been for years to the count's palace; it was quite a journey thither from the town.
"I must make one effort to go," said Anne Lisbeth, "to see my darling, the count's sweet child, and press him to my heart.
Certainly he must long to see me, too, the young count; no doubt he thinks of me and loves me, as in those days when he would fling his angel-arms round my neck, and lisp 'Anne Liz.'
It was music to my ears.
Yes, I must make an effort to see him again."
She drove across the country in a grazier's cart, and then got out, and continued her journey on foot, and thus reached the count's castle.
It was as great and magnificent as it had always been, and the garden looked the same as ever; all the servants were strangers to her, not one of them knew Anne Lisbeth, nor of what consequence she had once been there; but she felt sure the countess would soon let them know it, and her darling boy, too: how she longed to see him!
Now that Anne Lisbeth was at her journey's end, she was kept waiting a long time; and for those who wait, time passes slowly.
But before the great people went in to dinner, she was called in and spoken to very graciously.
She was to go in again after dinner, and then she would see her sweet boy once more.
How tall, and slender, and thin he had grown; but the eyes and the sweet angel mouth were still beautiful.
He looked at her, but he did not speak, he certainly did not know who she was.
He turned round and was going away, but she seized his hand and pressed it to her lips.
"Well, well," he said; and with that he walked out of the room.
He who filled her every thought! he whom she loved best, and who was her whole earthly pride!
Anne Lisbeth went forth from the castle into the public road, feeling mournful and sad; he whom she had nursed day and night, and even now carried about in her dreams, had been cold and strange, and had not a word or thought respecting her.
A great black raven darted down in front of her on the high road, and croaked dismally.
"Ah," said she, "what bird of ill omen art thou?"
Presently she passed the laborer's hut; his wife stood at the door, and the two women spoke to each other.
"You look well," said the woman; "you're fat and plump; you are well off."
"Oh yes," answered Anne Lisbeth.
"The boat went down with them," continued the woman; "Hans the skipper and the boy were both drowned; so there's an end of them.
I always thought the boy would be able to help me with a few dollars.
He'll never cost you anything more, Anne Lisbeth."
"So they were drowned," repeated Anne Lisbeth; but she said no more, and the subject was dropped.
She felt very low-spirited, because her count-child had shown no inclination to speak to her who loved him so well, and who had travelled so far to see him.
The journey had cost money too, and she had derived no great pleasure from it.
Still she said not a word of all this; she could not relieve her heart by telling the laborer's wife, lest the latter should think she did not enjoy her former position at the castle.
Then the raven flew over her, screaming again as he flew.
"The black wretch!" said Anne Lisbeth, "he will end by frightening me today."
She had brought coffee and chicory with her, for she thought it would be a charity to the poor woman to give them to her to boil a cup of coffee, and then she would take a cup herself.
The woman prepared the coffee, and in the meantime Anne Lisbeth seated her in a chair and fell asleep.
Then she dreamed of something which she had never dreamed before; singularly enough she dreamed of her own child, who had wept and hungered in the laborer's hut, and had been knocked about in heat and in cold, and who was now lying in the depths of the sea, in a spot only known by God.
She fancied she was still sitting in the hut, where the woman was busy preparing the coffee, for she could smell the coffee-berries roasting.
But suddenly it seemed to her that there stood on the threshold a beautiful young form, as beautiful as the count's child, and this apparition said to her, "The world is passing away; hold fast to me, for you are my mother after all; you have an angel in heaven, hold me fast;" and the child-angel stretched out his hand and seized her.
Then there was a terrible crash, as of a world crumbling to pieces, and the angel-child was rising from the earth, and holding her by the sleeve so tightly that she felt herself lifted from the ground; but, on the other hand, something heavy hung to her feet and dragged her down, and it seemed as if hundreds of women were clinging to her, and crying, "If thou art to be saved, we must be saved too.
Hold fast, hold fast."
And then they all hung on her, but there were too many; and as they clung the sleeve was torn, and Anne Lisbeth fell down in horror, and awoke.
Indeed she was on the point of falling over in reality with the chair on which she sat; but she was so startled and alarmed that she could not remember what she had dreamed, only that it was something very dreadful.
They drank their coffee and had a chat together, and then Anne Lisbeth went away towards the little town where she was to meet the carrier, who was to drive her back to her own home.
But when she came to him she found that he would not be ready to start till the evening of the next day.
Then she began to think of the expense, and what the distance would be to walk.
She remembered that the route by the sea-shore was two miles shorter than by the high road; and as the weather was clear, and there would be moonlight, she determined to make her way on foot, and to start at once, that she might reach home the next day.
The sun had set, and the evening bells sounded through the air from the tower of the village church, but to her it was not the bells, but the cry of the frogs in the marshes.
Then they ceased, and all around became still; not a bird could be heard, they were all at rest, even the owl had not left her hiding place; deep silence reigned on the margin of the wood by the sea-shore.
As Anne Lisbeth walked on she could hear her own footsteps in the sands; even the waves of the sea were at rest, and all in the deep waters had sunk into silence.
There was quiet among the dead and the living in the deep sea.
Anne Lisbeth walked on, thinking of nothing at all, as people say, or rather her thoughts wandered, but not away from her, for thought is never absent from us, it only slumbers.
Many thoughts that have lain dormant are roused at the proper time, and begin to stir in the mind and the heart, and seem even to come upon us from above.
It is written, that a good deed bears a blessing for its fruit; and it is also written, that the wages of sin is death.
Much has been said and much written which we pass over or know nothing of.
A light arises within us, and then forgotten things make themselves remembered; and thus it was with Anne Lisbeth.
The germ of every vice and every virtue lies in our heart, in yours and in mine; they lie like little grains of seed, till a ray of sunshine, or the touch of an evil hand, or you turn the corner to the right or to the left, and the decision is made.
The little seed is stirred, it swells and shoots up, and pours its sap into your blood, directing your course either for good or evil.
Troublesome thoughts often exist in the mind, fermenting there, which are not realized by us while the senses are as it were slumbering; but still they are there.
Anne Lisbeth walked on thus with her senses half asleep, but the thoughts were fermenting within her.
From one Shrove Tuesday to another, much may occur to weigh down the heart; it is the reckoning of a whole year; much may be forgotten, sins against heaven in word and thought, sins against our neighbor, and against our own conscience.
We are scarcely aware of their existence; and Anne Lisbeth did not think of any of her errors.
She had committed no crime against the law of the land; she was an honorable person, in a good position- that she knew.
She continued her walk along by the margin of the sea.
What was it she saw lying there?
An old hat; a man's hat.
Now when might that have been washed overboard?
She drew nearer, she stopped to look at the hat; "Ha! what was lying yonder?"
She shuddered; yet it was nothing save a heap of grass and tangled seaweed flung across a long stone, but it looked like a corpse.
Only tangled grass, and yet she was frightened at it.
As she turned to walk away, much came into her mind that she had heard in her childhood: old superstitions of spectres by the sea-shore; of the ghosts of drowned but unburied people, whose corpses had been washed up on the desolate beach.
The body, she knew, could do no harm to any one, but the spirit could pursue the lonely wanderer, attach itself to him, and demand to be carried to the churchyard, that it might rest in consecrated ground.
"Hold fast! hold fast!" the spectre would cry; and as Anne Lisbeth murmured these words to herself, the whole of her dream was suddenly recalled to her memory, when the mother had clung to her, and uttered these words, when, amid the crashing of worlds, her sleeve had been torn, and she had slipped from the grasp of her child, who wanted to hold her up in that terrible hour.
Her child, her own child, which she had never loved, lay now buried in the sea, and might rise up, like a spectre, from the waters, and cry, "Hold fast; carry me to consecrated ground!"
As these thoughts passed through her mind, fear gave speed to her feet, so that she walked faster and faster.
Fear came upon her as if a cold, clammy hand had been laid upon her heart, so that she almost fainted.
As she looked across the sea, all there grew darker; a heavy mist came rolling onwards, and clung to bush and tree, distorting them into fantastic shapes.
She turned and glanced at the moon, which had risen behind her.
It looked like a pale, rayless surface, and a deadly weight seemed to hang upon her limbs.
"Hold," thought she; and then she turned round a second time to look at the moon.
A white face appeared quite close to her, with a mist, hanging like a garment from its shoulders.
"Stop! carry me to consecrated earth," sounded in her ears, in strange, hollow tones.
The sound did not come from frogs or ravens; she saw no sign of such creatures.
"A grave! dig me a grave!" was repeated quite loud.
Yes, it was indeed the spectre of her child.
The child that lay beneath the ocean, and whose spirit could have no rest until it was carried to the churchyard, and until a grave had been dug for it in consecrated ground.
She would go there at once, and there she would dig.
She turned in the direction of the church, and the weight on her heart seemed to grow lighter, and even to vanish altogether; but when she turned to go home by the shortest way, it returned.
"Stop! stop!" and the words came quite clear, though they were like the croak of a frog, or the wail of a bird.
"A grave! dig me a grave!"
The mist was cold and damp, her hands and face were moist and clammy with horror, a heavy weight again seized her and clung to her, her mind became clear for thoughts that had never before been there.
In these northern regions, a beech-wood often buds in a single night and appears in the morning sunlight in its full glory of youthful green.
So, in a single instant, can the consciousness of the sin that has been committed in thoughts, words, and actions of our past life, be unfolded to us.
When once the conscience is awakened, it springs up in the heart spontaneously, and God awakens the conscience when we least expect it.
Then we can find no excuse for ourselves; the deed is there and bears witness against us.
The thoughts seem to become words, and to sound far out into the world.
We are horrified at the thought of what we have carried within us, and at the consciousness that we have not overcome the evil which has its origin in thoughtlessness and pride.
The heart conceals within itself the vices as well as the virtues, and they grow in the shallowest ground.
Anne Lisbeth now experienced in thought what we have clothed in words.
She was overpowered by them, and sank down and crept along for some distance on the ground.
"A grave! dig me a grave!" sounded again in her ears, and she would have gladly buried herself, if in the grave she could have found forgetfulness of her actions.
It was the first hour of her awakening, full of anguish and horror.
Superstition made her alternately shudder with cold or burn with the heat of fever.
Many things, of which she had feared even to speak, came into her mind.
Silently, as the cloud-shadows in the moonshine, a spectral apparition flitted by her; she had heard of it before.
Close by her galloped four snorting steeds, with fire flashing from their eyes and nostrils.
They dragged a burning coach, and within it sat the wicked lord of the manor, who had ruled there a hundred years before.
The legend says that every night, at twelve o'clock, he drove into his castleyard and out again.
He was not as pale as dead men are, but black as a coal.
He nodded, and pointed to Anne Lisbeth, crying out, "Hold fast! hold fast! and then you may ride again in a nobleman's carriage, and forget your child."
She gathered herself up, and hastened to the churchyard; but black crosses and black ravens danced before her eyes, and she could not distinguish one from the other.
The ravens croaked as the raven had done which she saw in the daytime, but now she understood what they said.
"I am the raven-mother; I am the raven-mother," each raven croaked, and Anne Lisbeth felt that the name also applied to her; and she fancied she should be transformed into a black bird, and have to cry as they cried, if she did not dig the grave.
And she threw herself upon the earth, and with her hands dug a grave in the hard ground, so that the blood ran from her fingers.
"A grave! dig me a grave!" still sounded in her ears; she was fearful that the cock might crow, and the first red streak appear in the east, before she had finished her work; and then she would be lost.
And the cock crowed, and the day dawned in the east, and the grave was only half dug.
An icy hand passed over her head and face, and down towards her heart.
"Only half a grave," a voice wailed, and fled away.
Yes, it fled away over the sea; it was the ocean spectre; and, exhausted and overpowered, Anne Lisbeth sunk to the ground, and her senses left her.
It was a bright day when she came to herself, and two men were raising her up; but she was not lying in the churchyard, but on the sea-shore, where she had dug a deep hole in the sand, and cut her hand with a piece of broken glass, whose sharp stern was stuck in a little block of painted wood.
Anne Lisbeth was in a fever.
Conscience had roused the memories of superstitions, and had so acted upon her mind, that she fancied she had only half a soul, and that her child had taken the other half down into the sea.
Never would she be able to cling to the mercy of Heaven till she had recovered this other half which was now held fast in the deep water.
Anne Lisbeth returned to her home, but she was no longer the woman she had been.
Her thoughts were like a confused, tangled skein; only one thread, only one thought was clear to her, namely that she must carry the spectre of the sea-shore to the churchyard, and dig a grave for him there; that by so doing she might win back her soul.
Many a night she was missed from her home, and was always found on the sea-shore waiting for the spectre.
In this way a whole year passed; and then one night she vanished again, and was not to be found.
The whole of the next day was spent in a useless search after her.
Towards evening, when the clerk entered the church to toll the vesper bell, he saw by the altar Anne Lisbeth, who had spent the whole day there.
Her powers of body were almost exhausted, but her eyes flashed brightly, and on her cheeks was a rosy flush.
The last rays of the setting sun shone upon her, and gleamed over the altar upon the shining clasps of the Bible, which lay open at the words of the prophet Joel, "Rend your hearts and not your garments, and turn unto the Lord."
"That was just a chance," people said; but do things happen by chance?
In the face of Anne Lisbeth, lighted up by the evening sun, could be seen peace and rest.
She said she was happy now, for she had conquered.
The spectre of the shore, her own child, had come to her the night before, and had said to her, "Thou hast dug me only half a grave: but thou hast now, for a year and a day, buried me altogether in thy heart, and it is there a mother can best hide her child!"
And then he gave her back her lost soul, and brought her into the church.
"Now I am in the house of God," she said, "and in that house we are happy."
When the sun set, Anne Lisbeth's soul had risen to that region where there is no more pain; and Anne Lisbeth's troubles were at an end.
IT was the month of May.
The wind still blew cold; but from bush and tree, field and flower, came the welcome sound, "Spring is come."
Wild-flowers in profusion covered the hedges.
Under the little apple-tree, Spring seemed busy, and told his tale from one of the branches which hung fresh and blooming, and covered with delicate pink blossoms that were just ready to open.
The branch well knew how beautiful it was; this knowledge exists as much in the leaf as in the blood; I was therefore not surprised when a nobleman's carriage, in which sat the young countess, stopped in the road just by.
She said that an apple-branch was a most lovely object, and an emblem of spring in its most charming aspect.
Then the branch was broken off for her, and she held it in her delicate hand, and sheltered it with her silk parasol.
Then they drove to the castle, in which were lofty halls and splendid drawing-rooms.
Pure white curtains fluttered before the open windows, and beautiful flowers stood in shining, transparent vases; and in one of them, which looked as if it had been cut out of newly fallen snow, the apple-branch was placed, among some fresh, light twigs of beech.
It was a charming sight.
Then the branch became proud, which was very much like human nature.
People of every description entered the room, and, according to their position in society, so dared they to express their admiration.
Some few said nothing, others expressed too much, and the apple-branch very soon got to understand that there was as much difference in the characters of human beings as in those of plants and flowers.
Some are all for pomp and parade, others have a great deal to do to maintain their own importance, while the rest might be spared without much loss to society.
So thought the apple-branch, as he stood before the open window, from which he could see out over gardens and fields, where there were flowers and plants enough for him to think and reflect upon; some rich and beautiful, some poor and humble indeed.
"Poor, despised herbs," said the apple-branch; "there is really a difference between them and such as I am.
How unhappy they must be, if they can feel as those in my position do!
There is a difference indeed, and so there ought to be, or we should all be equals."
And the apple-branch looked with a sort of pity upon them, especially on a certain little flower that is found in fields and in ditches.
No one bound these flowers together in a nosegay; they were too common; they were even known to grow between the paving-stones, shooting up everywhere, like bad weeds; and they bore the very ugly name of "dog-flowers" or "dandelions."
"Poor, despised plants," said the apple-bough, "it is not your fault that you are so ugly, and that you have such an ugly name; but it is with plants as with men,- there must be a difference."
"A difference!" cried the sunbeam, as he kissed the blooming apple-branch, and then kissed the yellow dandelion out in the fields.
All were brothers, and the sunbeam kissed them- the poor flowers as well as the rich.
The apple-bough had never thought of the boundless love of God, which extends over all the works of creation, over everything which lives, and moves, and has its being in Him; he had never thought of the good and beautiful which are so often hidden, but can never remain forgotten by Him,- not only among the lower creation, but also among men.
The sunbeam, the ray of light, knew better.
"You do not see very far, nor very clearly," he said to the apple-branch.
"Which is the despised plant you so specially pity?"
"The dandelion," he replied.
"No one ever places it in a nosegay; it is often trodden under foot, there are so many of them; and when they run to seed, they have flowers like wool, which fly away in little pieces over the roads, and cling to the dresses of the people.
They are only weeds; but of course there must be weeds.
O, I am really very thankful that I was not made like one of these flowers."
There came presently across the fields a whole group of children, the youngest of whom was so small that it had to be carried by the others; and when he was seated on the grass, among the yellow flowers, he laughed aloud with joy, kicked out his little legs, rolled about, plucked the yellow flowers, and kissed them in childlike innocence.
The elder children broke off the flowers with long stems, bent the stalks one round the other, to form links, and made first a chain for the neck, then one to go across the shoulders, and hang down to the waist, and at last a wreath to wear round the head, so that they looked quite splendid in their garlands of green stems and golden flowers.
But the eldest among them gathered carefully the faded flowers, on the stem of which was grouped together the seed, in the form of a white feathery coronal.
These loose, airy wool-flowers are very beautiful, and look like fine snowy feathers or down.
The children held them to their mouths, and tried to blow away the whole coronal with one puff of the breath.
They had been told by their grandmothers that who ever did so would be sure to have new clothes before the end of the year.
The despised flower was by this raised to the position of a prophet or foreteller of events.
"Do you see," said the sunbeam, "do you see the beauty of these flowers? do you see their powers of giving pleasure?"
"Yes, to children," said the apple-bough.
By-and-by an old woman came into the field, and, with a blunt knife without a handle, began to dig round the roots of some of the dandelion-plants, and pull them up.
With some of these she intended to make tea for herself; but the rest she was going to sell to the chemist, and obtain some money.
"But beauty is of higher value than all this," said the apple-tree branch; "only the chosen ones can be admitted into the realms of the beautiful.
There is a difference between plants, just as there is a difference between men."
Then the sunbeam spoke of the boundless love of God, as seen in creation, and over all that lives, and of the equal distribution of His gifts, both in time and in eternity.
"That is your opinion," said the apple-bough.
Then some people came into the room, and, among them, the young countess,- the lady who had placed the apple-bough in the transparent vase, so pleasantly beneath the rays of the sunlight.
She carried in her hand something that seemed like a flower.
The object was hidden by two or three great leaves, which covered it like a shield, so that no draught or gust of wind could injure it, and it was carried more carefully than the apple-branch had ever been.
Very cautiously the large leaves were removed, and there appeared the feathery seed-crown of the despised dandelion.
This was what the lady had so carefully plucked, and carried home so safely covered, so that not one of the delicate feathery arrows of which its mist-like shape was so lightly formed, should flutter away.
She now drew it forth quite uninjured, and wondered at its beautiful form, and airy lightness, and singular construction, so soon to be blown away by the wind.
"See," she exclaimed, "how wonderfully God has made this little flower.
I will paint it with the apple-branch together.
Every one admires the beauty of the apple-bough; but this humble flower has been endowed by Heaven with another kind of loveliness; and although they differ in appearance, both are the children of the realms of beauty."
Then the sunbeam kissed the lowly flower, and he kissed the blooming apple-branch, upon whose leaves appeared a rosy blush.
THERE was once a sculptor, named Alfred, who having won the large gold medal and obtained a travelling scholarship, went to Italy, and then came back to his native land.
He was young at that time- indeed, he is young still, although he is ten years older than he was then.
On his return, he went to visit one of the little towns in the island of Zealand.
The whole town knew who the stranger was; and one of the richest men in the place gave a party in his honor, and all who were of any consequence, or who possessed some property, were invited.
It was quite an event, and all the town knew of it, so that it was not necessary to announce it by beat of drum.
Apprentice-boys, children of the poor, and even the poor people themselves, stood before the house, watching the lighted windows; and the watchman might easily fancy he was giving a party also, there were so many people in the streets.
There was quite an air of festivity about it, and the house was full of it; for Mr. Alfred, the sculptor, was there.
He talked and told anecdotes, and every one listened to him with pleasure, not unmingled with awe; but none felt so much respect for him as did the elderly widow of a naval officer.
She seemed, so far as Mr. Alfred was concerned, to be like a piece of fresh blotting-paper that absorbed all he said and asked for more.
She was very appreciative, and incredibly ignorant- a kind of female Gaspar Hauser.
"I should like to see Rome," she said; "it must be a lovely city, or so many foreigners would not be constantly arriving there.
Now, do give me a description of Rome.
How does the city look when you enter in at the gate?"
"I cannot very well describe it," said the sculptor; "but you enter on a large open space, in the centre of which stands an obelisk, which is a thousand years old."
"An organist!" exclaimed the lady, who had never heard the word 'obelisk.'
Several of the guests could scarcely forbear laughing, and the sculptor would have had some difficulty in keeping his countenance, but the smile on his lips faded away; for he caught sight of a pair of dark-blue eyes close by the side of the inquisitive lady.
They belonged to her daughter; and surely no one who had such a daughter could be silly.
The mother was like a fountain of questions; and the daughter, who listened but never spoke, might have passed for the beautiful maid of the fountain.
How charming she was!
She was a study for the sculptor to contemplate, but not to converse with; for she did not speak, or, at least, very seldom.
"Has the pope a great family?" inquired the lady.
The young man answered considerately, as if the question had been a different one, "No; he does not come from a great family."
"That is not what I asked," persisted the widow; "I mean, has he a wife and children?"
"The pope is not allowed to marry," replied the gentleman.
"I don't like that," was the lady's remark.
She certainly might have asked more sensible questions; but if she had not been allowed to say just what she liked, would her daughter have been there, leaning so gracefully on her shoulder, and looking straight before her, with a smile that was almost mournful on her face?
Mr. Alfred again spoke of Italy, and of the glorious colors in Italian scenery; the purple hills, the deep blue of the Mediterranean, the azure of southern skies, whose brightness and glory could only be surpassed in the north by the deep-blue eyes of a maiden; and he said this with a peculiar intonation; but she who should have understood his meaning looked quite unconscious of it, which also was charming.
"Beautiful Italy!" sighed some of the guests.
"Oh, to travel there!" exclaimed others.
"Charming!
Charming!" echoed from every voice.
"I may perhaps win a hundred thousand dollars in the lottery," said the naval officer's widow; "and if I do, we will travel- I and my daughter; and you, Mr. Alfred, must be our guide.
We can all three travel together, with one or two more of our good friends."
And she nodded in such a friendly way at the company, that each imagined himself to be the favored person who was to accompany them to Italy.
"Yes, we must go," she continued; "but not to those parts where there are robbers.
We will keep to Rome.
In the public roads one is always safe."
The daughter sighed very gently; and how much there may be in a sigh, or attributed to it!
The young man attributed a great deal of meaning to this sigh.
Those deep-blue eyes, which had been lit up this evening in honor of him, must conceal treasures, treasures of heart and mind, richer than all the glories of Rome; and so when he left the party that night, he had lost it completely to the young lady.
The house of the naval officer's widow was the one most constantly visited by Mr. Alfred, the sculptor.
It was soon understood that his visits were not intended for that lady, though they were the persons who kept up the conversation.
He came for the sake of the daughter.
They called her Kaela.
Her name was really Karen Malena, and these two names had been contracted into the one name Kaela.
She was really beautiful; but some said she was rather dull, and slept late of a morning.
"She has been accustomed to that," her mother said.
"She is a beauty, and they are always easily tired.
She does sleep rather late; but that makes her eyes so clear."
What power seemed to lie in the depths of those dark eyes!
The young man felt the truth of the proverb, "Still waters run deep:" and his heart had sunk into their depths.
He often talked of his adventures, and the mamma was as simple and eager in her questions as on the first evening they met.
It was a pleasure to hear Alfred describe anything.
He showed them colored plates of Naples, and spoke of excursions to Mount Vesuvius, and the eruptions of fire from it.
The naval officer's widow had never heard of them before.
"Good heavens!" she exclaimed.
"So that is a burning mountain; but is it not very dangerous to the people who live near it?"
"Whole cities have been destroyed," he replied; "for instance, Herculaneum and Pompeii."
"Oh, the poor people!
And you saw all that with your own eyes?"
"No; I did not see any of the eruptions which are represented in those pictures; but I will show you a sketch of my own, which represents an eruption I once saw."
He placed a pencil sketch on the table; and mamma, who had been over-powered with the appearance of the colored plates, threw a glance at the pale drawing and cried in astonishment, "What, did you see it throw up white fire?"
For a moment, Alfred's respect for Kaela's mamma underwent a sudden shock, and lessened considerably; but, dazzled by the light which surrounded Kaela, he soon found it quite natural that the old lady should have no eye for color.
After all, it was of very little consequence; for Kaela's mamma had the best of all possessions; namely, Kaela herself.
Alfred and Kaela were betrothed, which was a very natural result; and the betrothal was announced in the newspaper of the little town.
Mama purchased thirty copies of the paper, that she might cut out the paragraph and send it to friends and acquaintances.
The betrothed pair were very happy, and the mother was happy too.
She said it seemed like connecting herself with Thorwalsden.
"You are a true successor of Thorwalsden," she said to Alfred; and it seemed to him as if, in this instance, mamma had said a clever thing.
Kaela was silent; but her eyes shone, her lips smiled, every movement was graceful,- in fact, she was beautiful; that cannot be repeated too often.
Alfred decided to take a bust of Kaela as well as of her mother.
They sat to him accordingly, and saw how he moulded and formed the soft clay with his fingers.
"I suppose it is only on our account that you perform this common-place work yourself, instead of leaving it to your servant to do all that sticking together."
"It is really necessary that I should mould the clay myself," he replied.
"Ah, yes, you are always so polite," said mamma, with a smile; and Kaela silently pressed his hand, all soiled as it was with the clay.
Then he unfolded to them both the beauties of Nature, in all her works; he pointed out to them how, in the scale of creation, inanimate matter was inferior to animate nature; the plant above the mineral, the animal above the plant, and man above them all.
He strove to show them how the beauty of the mind could be displayed in the outward form, and that it was the sculptor's task to seize upon that beauty of expression, and produce it in his works.
Kaela stood silent, but nodded in approbation of what he said, while mamma-in-law made the following confession:- "It is difficult to follow you; but I go hobbling along after you with my thoughts, though what you say makes my head whirl round and round.
Still I contrive to lay hold on some of it."
Kaela's beauty had a firm hold on Alfred; it filled his soul, and held a mastery over him.
Beauty beamed from Kaela's every feature, glittered in her eyes, lurked in the corners of her mouth, and pervaded every movement of her agile fingers.
Alfred, the sculptor, saw this.
He spoke only to her, thought only of her, and the two became one; and so it may be said she spoke much, for he was always talking to her; and he and she were one.
Such was the betrothal, and then came the wedding, with bride's-maids and wedding presents, all duly mentioned in the wedding speech.
Mamma-in-law had set up Thorwalsden's bust at the end of the table, attired in a dressing-gown; it was her fancy that he should be a guest.
Songs were sung, and cheers given; for it was a gay wedding, and they were a handsome pair.
"Pygmalion loved his Galatea," said one of the songs.
"Ah, that is some of your mythologies," said mamma-in-law.
Next day the youthful pair started for Copenhagen, where they were to live; mamma-in-law accompanied them, to attend to the "coarse work," as she always called the domestic arrangements.
Kaela looked like a doll in a doll's house, for everything was bright and new, and so fine.
There they sat, all three; and as for Alfred, a proverb may describe his position- he looked like a swan amongst the geese.
The magic of form had enchanted him; he had looked at the casket without caring to inquire what it contained, and that omission often brings the greatest unhappiness into married life.
The casket may be injured, the gilding may fall off, and then the purchaser regrets his bargain.
In a large party it is very disagreeable to find a button giving way, with no studs at hand to fall back upon; but it is worse still in a large company to be conscious that your wife and mother-in-law are talking nonsense, and that you cannot depend upon yourself to produce a little ready wit to carry off the stupidity of the whole affair.
The young married pair often sat together hand in hand; he would talk, but she could only now and then let fall a word in the same melodious voice, the same bell-like tones.
It was a mental relief when Sophy, one of her friends, came to pay them a visit.
Sophy was not, pretty.
She was, however, quite free from any physical deformity, although Kaela used to say she was a little crooked; but no eye, save an intimate acquaintance, would have noticed it.
She was a very sensible girl, yet it never occurred to her that she might be a dangerous person in such a house.
Her appearance created a new atmosphere in the doll's house, and air was really required, they all owned that.
They felt the want of a change of air, and consequently the young couple and their mother travelled to Italy.
"Thank heaven we are at home again within our own four walls," said mamma-in-law and daughter both, on their return after a year's absence.
"There is no real pleasure in travelling," said mamma; "to tell the truth, it's very wearisome; I beg pardon for saying so.
I was soon very tired of it, although I had my children with me; and, besides, it's very expensive work travelling, very expensive.
And all those galleries one is expected to see, and the quantity of things you are obliged to run after!
It must be done, for very shame; you are sure to be asked when you come back if you have seen everything, and will most likely be told that you've omitted to see what was best worth seeing of all.
I got tired at last of those endless Madonnas; I began to think I was turning into a Madonna myself."
"And then the living, mamma," said Kaela.
"Yes, indeed," she replied, "no such a thing as a respectable meat soup- their cookery is miserable stuff."
The journey had also tired Kaela; but she was always fatigued, that was the worst of it.
So they sent for Sophy, and she was taken into the house to reside with them, and her presence there was a great advantage.
Mamma-in-law acknowledged that Sophy was not only a clever housewife, but well-informed and accomplished, though that could hardly be expected in a person of her limited means.
She was also a generous-hearted, faithful girl; she showed that thoroughly while Kaela lay sick, fading away.
When the casket is everything, the casket should be strong, or else all is over.
And all was over with the casket, for Kaela died.
"She was beautiful," said her mother; "she was quite different from the beauties they call 'antiques,' for they are so damaged.
A beauty ought to be perfect, and Kaela was a perfect beauty."
Alfred wept, and mamma wept, and they both wore mourning.
The black dress suited mamma very well, and she wore mourning the longest.
She had also to experience another grief in seeing Alfred marry again, marry Sophy, who was nothing at all to look at.
"He's gone to the very extreme," said mamma-in-law; "he has gone from the most beautiful to the ugliest, and he has forgotten his first wife.
Men have no constancy.
My husband was a very different man,- but then he died before me."
"'Pygmalion loved his Galatea,' was in the song they sung at my first wedding," said Alfred; "I once fell in love with a beautiful statue, which awoke to life in my arms; but the kindred soul, which is a gift from heaven, the angel who can feel and sympathize with and elevate us, I have not found and won till now.
You came, Sophy, not in the glory of outward beauty, though you are even fairer than is necessary.
The chief thing still remains.
You came to teach the sculptor that his work is but dust and clay only, an outward form made of a material that decays, and that what we should seek to obtain is the ethereal essence of mind and spirit.
Poor Kaela! our life was but as a meeting by the way-side; in yonder world, where we shall know each other from a union of mind, we shall be but mere acquaintances."
"That was not a loving speech," said Sophy, "nor spoken like a Christian.
In a future state, where there is neither marrying nor giving in marriage, but where, as you say, souls are attracted to each other by sympathy; there everything beautiful develops itself, and is raised to a higher state of existence: her soul will acquire such completeness that it may harmonize with yours, even more than mine, and you will then once more utter your first rapturous exclamation of your love, 'Beautiful, most beautiful!'"
THERE was once an Emperor who had a horse shod with gold.
He had a golden shoe on each foot, and why was this?
He was a beautiful creature, with slender legs, bright, intelligent eyes, and a mane that hung down over his neck like a veil.
He had carried his master through fire and smoke in the battle-field, with the bullets whistling round him; he had kicked and bitten, and taken part in the fight, when the enemy advanced; and, with his master on his back, he had dashed over the fallen foe, and saved the golden crown and the Emperor's life, which was of more value than the brightest gold.
This is the reason of the Emperor's horse wearing golden shoes.
A beetle came creeping forth from the stable, where the farrier had been shoeing the horse.
"Great ones, first, of course," said he, "and then the little ones; but size is not always a proof of greatness."
He stretched out his thin leg as he spoke.
"And pray what do you want?" asked the farrier.
"Golden shoes," replied the beetle.
"Why, you must be out of your senses," cried the farrier.
"Golden shoes for you, indeed!"
"Yes, certainly; golden shoes," replied the beetle.
"Am I not just as good as that great creature yonder, who is waited upon and brushed, and has food and drink placed before him?
And don't I belong to the royal stables?"
"But why does the horse have golden shoes?" asked the farrier; "of course you understand the reason?"
"Understand!
Well, I understand that it is a personal slight to me," cried the beetle.
"It is done to annoy me, so I intend to go out into the world and seek my fortune."
"Go along with you," said the farrier.
"You're a rude fellow," cried the beetle, as he walked out of the stable; and then he flew for a short distance, till he found himself in a beautiful flower-garden, all fragrant with roses and lavender.
The lady-birds, with red and black shells on their backs, and delicate wings, were flying about, and one of them said, "Is it not sweet and lovely here?
Oh, how beautiful everything is."
"I am accustomed to better things," said the beetle.
"Do you call this beautiful?
Why, there is not even a dung-heap."
Then he went on, and under the shadow of a large haystack he found a caterpillar crawling along.
"How beautiful this world is!" said the caterpillar.
"The sun is so warm, I quite enjoy it.
And soon I shall go to sleep, and die as they call it, but I shall wake up with beautiful wings to fly with, like a butterfly."
"How conceited you are!" exclaimed the beetle.
"Fly about as a butterfly, indeed! what of that.
I have come out of the Emperor's stable, and no one there, not even the Emperor's horse, who, in fact, wears my cast-off golden shoes, has any idea of flying, excepting myself.
To have wings and fly! why, I can do that already;" and so saying, he spread his wings and flew away.
"I don't want to be disgusted," he said to himself, "and yet I can't help it."
Soon after, he fell down upon an extensive lawn, and for a time pretended to sleep, but at last fell asleep in earnest.
Suddenly a heavy shower of rain came falling from the clouds.
The beetle woke up with the noise and would have been glad to creep into the earth for shelter, but he could not.
He was tumbled over and over with the rain, sometimes swimming on his stomach and sometimes on his back; and as for flying, that was out of the question.
He began to doubt whether he should escape with his life, so he remained, quietly lying where he was.
After a while the weather cleared up a little, and the beetle was able to rub the water from his eyes, and look about him.
He saw something gleaming, and he managed to make his way up to it.
It was linen which had been laid to bleach on the grass.
He crept into a fold of the damp linen, which certainly was not so comfortable a place to lie in as the warm stable, but there was nothing better, so he remained lying there for a whole day and night, and the rain kept on all the time.
Towards morning he crept out of his hiding-place, feeling in a very bad temper with the climate.
Two frogs were sitting on the linen, and their bright eyes actually glistened with pleasure.
"Wonderful weather this," cried one of them, "and so refreshing.
This linen holds the water together so beautifully, that my hind legs quiver as if I were going to swim."
"I should like to know," said another, "If the swallow who flies so far in her many journeys to foreign lands, ever met with a better climate than this.
What delicious moisture!
It is as pleasant as lying in a wet ditch.
I am sure any one who does not enjoy this has no love for his fatherland."
"Have you ever been in the Emperor's stable?" asked the beetle.
"There the moisture is warm and refreshing; that's the climate for me, but I could not take it with me on my travels.
Is there not even a dunghill here in this garden, where a person of rank, like myself, could take up his abode and feel at home?"
But the frogs either did not or would not understand him.
"I never ask a question twice," said the beetle, after he had asked this one three times, and received no answer.
Then he went on a little farther and stumbled against a piece of broken crockery-ware, which certainly ought not to have been lying there.
But as it was there, it formed a good shelter against wind and weather to several families of earwigs who dwelt in it.
Their requirements were not many, they were very sociable, and full of affection for their children, so much so that each mother considered her own child the most beautiful and clever of them all.
"Our dear son has engaged himself," said one mother, "dear innocent boy; his greatest ambition is that he may one day creep into a clergyman's ear.
That is a very artless and loveable wish; and being engaged will keep him steady.
What happiness for a mother!"
"Our son," said another, "had scarcely crept out of the egg, when he was off on his travels.
He is all life and spirits, I expect he will wear out his horns with running.
How charming this is for a mother, is it not Mr. Beetle?" for she knew the stranger by his horny coat.
"You are both quite right," said he; so they begged him to walk in, that is to come as far as he could under the broken piece of earthenware.
"Now you shall also see my little earwigs," said a third and a fourth mother, "they are lovely little things, and highly amusing.
They are never ill-behaved, except when they are uncomfortable in their inside, which unfortunately often happens at their age."
Thus each mother spoke of her baby, and their babies talked after their own fashion, and made use of the little nippers they have in their tails to nip the beard of the beetle.
"They are always busy about something, the little rogues," said the mother, beaming with maternal pride; but the beetle felt it a bore, and he therefore inquired the way to the nearest dung-heap.
"That is quite out in the great world, on the other side of the ditch," answered an earwig, "I hope none of my children will ever go so far, it would be the death of me."
"But I shall try to get so far," said the beetle, and he walked off without taking any formal leave, which is considered a polite thing to do.
When he arrived at the ditch, he met several friends, all them beetles; "We live here," they said, "and we are very comfortable.
May we ask you to step down into this rich mud, you must be fatigued after your journey."
"Certainly," said the beetle, "I shall be most happy; I have been exposed to the rain, and have had to lie upon linen, and cleanliness is a thing that greatly exhausts me; I have also pains in one of my wings from standing in the draught under a piece of broken crockery.
It is really quite refreshing to be with one's own kindred again."
"Perhaps you came from a dung-heap," observed the oldest of them.
"No, indeed, I came from a much grander place," replied the beetle; "I came from the emperor's stable, where I was born, with golden shoes on my feet.
I am travelling on a secret embassy, but you must not ask me any questions, for I cannot betray my secret."
Then the beetle stepped down into the rich mud, where sat three young-lady beetles, who tittered, because they did not know what to say.
"None of them are engaged yet," said their mother, and the beetle maidens tittered again, this time quite in confusion.
"I have never seen greater beauties, even in the royal stables," exclaimed the beetle, who was now resting himself.
"Don't spoil my girls," said the mother; "and don't talk to them, pray, unless you have serious intentions."
But of course the beetle's intentions were serious, and after a while our friend was engaged.
The mother gave them her blessing, and all the other beetles cried "hurrah."
Immediately after the betrothal came the marriage, for there was no reason to delay.
The following day passed very pleasantly, and the next was tolerably comfortable; but on the third it became necessary for him to think of getting food for his wife, and, perhaps, for children.
"I have allowed myself to be taken in," said our beetle to himself, "and now there's nothing to be done but to take them in, in return."
No sooner said than done.
Away he went, and stayed away all day and all night, and his wife remained behind a forsaken widow.
"Oh," said the other beetles, "this fellow that we have received into our family is nothing but a complete vagabond.
He has gone away and left his wife a burden upon our hands."
"Well, she can be unmarried again, and remain here with my other daughters," said the mother.
"Fie on the villain that forsook her!"
In the mean time the beetle, who had sailed across the ditch on a cabbage leaf, had been journeying on the other side.
In the morning two persons came up to the ditch.
When they saw him they took him up and turned him over and over, looking very learned all the time, especially one, who was a boy.
"Allah sees the black beetle in the black stone, and the black rock.
Is not that written in the Koran?" he asked.
Then he translated the beetle's name into Latin, and said a great deal upon the creature's nature and history.
The second person, who was older and a scholar, proposed to carry the beetle home, as they wanted just such good specimens as this.
Our beetle considered this speech a great insult, so he flew suddenly out of the speaker's hand.
His wings were dry now, so they carried him to a great distance, till at last he reached a hothouse, where a sash of the glass roof was partly open, so he quietly slipped in and buried himself in the warm earth.
"It is very comfortable here," he said to himself, and soon after fell asleep.
Then he dreamed that the emperor's horse was dying, and had left him his golden shoes, and also promised that he should have two more.
All this was very delightful, and when the beetle woke up he crept forth and looked around him.
What a splendid place the hothouse was!
At the back, large palm-trees were growing; and the sunlight made the leaves- look quite glossy; and beneath them what a profusion of luxuriant green, and of flowers red like flame, yellow as amber, or white as new-fallen snow!
"What a wonderful quantity of plants," cried the beetle; "how good they will taste when they are decayed!
This is a capital store-room.
There must certainly be some relations of mine living here; I will just see if I can find any one with whom I can associate.
I'm proud, certainly; but I'm also proud of being so.
Then he prowled about in the earth, and thought what a pleasant dream that was about the dying horse, and the golden shoes he had inherited.
Suddenly a hand seized the beetle, and squeezed him, and turned him round and round.
The gardener's little son and his playfellow had come into the hothouse, and, seeing the beetle, wanted to have some fun with him.
First, he was wrapped, in a vine-leaf, and put into a warm trousers' pocket.
He twisted and turned about with all his might, but he got a good squeeze from the boy's hand, as a hint for him to keep quiet.
Then the boy went quickly towards a lake that lay at the end of the garden.
Here the beetle was put into an old broken wooden shoe, in which a little stick had been fastened upright for a mast, and to this mast the beetle was bound with a piece of worsted.
Now he was a sailor, and had to sail away.
The lake was not very large, but to the beetle it seemed an ocean, and he was so astonished at its size that he fell over on his back, and kicked out his legs.
Then the little ship sailed away; sometimes the current of the water seized it, but whenever it went too far from the shore one of the boys turned up his trousers, and went in after it, and brought it back to land.
But at last, just as it went merrily out again, the two boys were called, and so angrily, that they hastened to obey, and ran away as fast as they could from the pond, so that the little ship was left to its fate.
It was carried away farther and farther from the shore, till it reached the open sea.
This was a terrible prospect for the beetle, for he could not escape in consequence of being bound to the mast.
Then a fly came and paid him a visit.
"What beautiful weather," said the fly; "I shall rest here and sun myself.
You must have a pleasant time of it."
"You speak without knowing the facts," replied the beetle; "don't you see that I am a prisoner?"
"Ah, but I'm not a prisoner," remarked the fly, and away he flew.
"Well, now I know the world," said the beetle to himself; "it's an abominable world; I'm the only respectable person in it.
First, they refuse me my golden shoes; then I have to lie on damp linen, and to stand in a draught; and to crown all, they fasten a wife upon me.
Then, when I have made a step forward in the world, and found out a comfortable position, just as I could wish it to be, one of these human boys comes and ties me up, and leaves me to the mercy of the wild waves, while the emperor's favorite horse goes prancing about proudly on his golden shoes.
This vexes me more than anything.
But it is useless to look for sympathy in this world.
My career has been very interesting, but what's the use of that if nobody knows anything about it?
The world does not deserve to be made acquainted with my adventures, for it ought to have given me golden shoes when the emperor's horse was shod, and I stretched out my feet to be shod, too.
If I had received golden shoes I should have been an ornament to the stable; now I am lost to the stable and to the world.
It is all over with me."
But all was not yet over.
A boat, in which were a few young girls, came rowing up.
"Look, yonder is an old wooden shoe sailing along," said one of the younger girls.
"And there's a poor little creature bound fast in it," said another.
The boat now came close to our beetle's ship, and the young girls fished it out of the water.
One of them drew a small pair of scissors from her pocket, and cut the worsted without hurting the beetle, and when she stepped on shore she placed him on the grass.
"There," she said, "creep away, or fly, if thou canst.
It is a splendid thing to have thy liberty."
Away flew the beetle, straight through the open window of a large building; there he sank down, tired and exhausted, exactly on the mane of the emperor's favorite horse, who was standing in his stable; and the beetle found himself at home again.
For some time he clung to the mane, that he might recover himself.
"Well," he said, "here I am, seated on the emperor's favorite horse,- sitting upon him as if I were the emperor himself.
But what was it the farrier asked me?
Ah, I remember now,- that's a good thought,- he asked me why the golden shoes were given to the horse.
The answer is quite clear to me, now.
They were given to the horse on my account."
And this reflection put the beetle into a good temper.
The sun's rays also came streaming into the stable, and shone upon him, and made the place lively and bright.
"Travelling expands the mind very much," said the beetle.
"The world is not so bad after all, if you know how to take things as they come.
IN the narrow streets of a large town people often heard in the evening, when the sun was setting, and his last rays gave a golden tint to the chimney-pots, a strange noise which resembled the sound of a church bell; it only lasted an instant, for it was lost in the continual roar of traffic and hum of voices which rose from the town.
"The evening bell is ringing," people used to say; "the sun is setting!"
Those who walked outside the town, where the houses were less crowded and interspersed by gardens and little fields, saw the evening sky much better, and heard the sound of the bell much more clearly.
It seemed as though the sound came from a church, deep in the calm, fragrant wood, and thither people looked with devout feelings.
A considerable time elapsed: one said to the other, "I really wonder if there is a church out in the wood.
The bell has indeed a strange sweet sound!
Shall we go there and see what the cause of it is?"
The rich drove, the poor walked, but the way seemed to them extraordinarily long, and when they arrived at a number of willow trees on the border of the wood they sat down, looked up into the great branches and thought they were now really in the wood.
A confectioner from the town also came out and put up a stall there; then came another confectioner who hung a bell over his stall, which was covered with pitch to protect it from the rain, but the clapper was wanting.
When people came home they used to say that it had been very romantic, and that really means something else than merely taking tea.
Three persons declared that they had gone as far as the end of the wood; they had always heard the strange sound, but there it seemed to them as if it came from the town.
One of them wrote verses about the bell, and said that it was like the voice of a mother speaking to an intelligent and beloved child; no tune, he said, was sweeter than the sound of the bell.
The emperor of the country heard of it, and declared that he who would really find out where the sound came from should receive the title of "Bellringer to the World," even if there was no bell at all.
Now many went out into the wood for the sake of this splendid berth; but only one of them came back with some sort of explanation.
None of them had gone far enough, nor had he, and yet he said that the sound of the bell came from a large owl in a hollow tree.
It was a wisdom owl, which continually knocked its head against the tree, but he was unable to say with certainty whether its head or the hollow trunk of the tree was the cause of the noise.
He was appointed "Bellringer to the World," and wrote every year a short dissertation on the owl, but by this means people did not become any wiser than they had been before.
It was just confirmation-day.
The clergyman had delivered a beautiful and touching sermon, the candidates were deeply moved by it; it was indeed a very important day for them; they were all at once transformed from mere children to grown-up people; the childish soul was to fly over, as it were, into a more reasonable being.
The sun shone most brightly; and the sound of the great unknown bell was heard more distinctly than ever.
They had a mind to go thither, all except three.
One of them wished to go home and try on her ball dress, for this very dress and the ball were the cause of her being confirmed this time, otherwise she would not have been allowed to go.
The second, a poor boy, had borrowed a coat and a pair of boots from the son of his landlord to be confirmed in, and he had to return them at a certain time.
The third said that he never went into strange places if his parents were not with him; he had always been a good child, and wished to remain so, even after being confirmed, and they ought not to tease him for this; they, however, did it all the same.
These three, therefore did not go; the others went on.
The sun was shining, the birds were singing, and the confirmed children sang too, holding each other by the hand, for they had no position yet, and they were all equal in the eyes of God.
Two of the smallest soon became tired and returned to the town; two little girls sat down and made garlands of flowers, they, therefore, did not go on.
When the others arrived at the willow trees, where the confectioner had put up his stall, they said: "Now we are out here; the bell does not in reality exist- it is only something that people imagine!"
Then suddenly the sound of the bell was heard so beautifully and solemnly from the wood that four or five made up their minds to go still further on.
The wood was very thickly grown.
It was difficult to advance: wood lilies and anemones grew almost too high; flowering convolvuli and brambles were hanging like garlands from tree to tree; while the nightingales were singing and the sunbeams played.
That was very beautiful!
But the way was unfit for the girls; they would have torn their dresses.
Large rocks, covered with moss of various hues, were lying about; the fresh spring water rippled forth with a peculiar sound.
"I don't think that can be the bell," said one of the confirmed children, and then he lay down and listened.
"We must try to find out if it is!"
And there he remained, and let the others walk on.
They came to a hut built of the bark of trees and branches; a large crab-apple tree spread its branches over it, as if it intended to pour all its fruit on the roof, upon which roses were blooming; the long boughs covered the gable, where a little bell was hanging.
Was this the one they had heard?
All agreed that it must be so, except one who said that the bell was too small and too thin to be heard at such a distance, and that it had quite a different sound to that which had so touched men's hearts.
He who spoke was a king's son, and therefore the others said that such a one always wishes to be cleverer than other people.
Therefore they let him go alone; and as he walked on, the solitude of the wood produced a feeling of reverence in his breast; but still he heard the little bell about which the others rejoiced, and sometimes, when the wind blew in that direction, he could hear the sounds from the confectioner's stall, where the others were singing at tea.
But the deep sounds of the bell were much stronger; soon it seemed to him as if an organ played an accompaniment- the sound came from the left, from the side where the heart is.
Now something rustled among the bushes, and a little boy stood before the king's son, in wooden shoes and such a short jacket that the sleeves did not reach to his wrists.
They knew each other: the boy was the one who had not been able to go with them because he had to take the coat and boots back to his landlord's son.
That he had done, and had started again in his wooden shoes and old clothes, for the sound of the bell was too enticing- he felt he must go on.
"We might go together," said the king's son.
But the poor boy with the wooden shoes was quite ashamed; he pulled at the short sleeves of his jacket, and said that he was afraid he could not walk so fast; besides, he was of opinion that the bell ought to be sought at the right, for there was all that was grand and magnificent.
"Then we shall not meet," said the king's son, nodding to the poor boy, who went into the deepest part of the wood, where the thorns tore his shabby clothes and scratched his hands, face, and feet until they bled.
The king's son also received several good scratches, but the sun was shining on his way, and it is he whom we will now follow, for he was a quick fellow.
"I will and must find the bell," he said, "if I have to go to the end of the world."
Ugly monkeys sat high in the branches and clenched their teeth.
"Shall we beat him?" they said.
"Shall we thrash him?
He is a king's son!"
But he walked on undaunted, deeper and deeper into the wood, where the most wonderful flowers were growing; there were standing white star lilies with blood-red stamens, sky-blue tulips shining when the wind moved them; apple-trees covered with apples like large glittering soap bubbles: only think how resplendent these trees were in the sunshine!
All around were beautiful green meadows, where hart and hind played in the grass.
There grew magnificent oaks and beech-trees; and if the bark was split of any of them, long blades of grass grew out of the clefts; there were also large smooth lakes in the wood, on which the swans were swimming about and flapping their wings.
The king's son often stood still and listened; sometimes he thought that the sound of the bell rose up to him out of one of these deep lakes, but soon he found that this was a mistake, and that the bell was ringing still farther in the wood.
Then the sun set, the clouds were as red as fire; it became quiet in the wood; he sank down on his knees, sang an evening hymn and said: "I shall never find what I am looking for!
Now the sun is setting, and the night, the dark night, is approaching.
Yet I may perhaps see the round sun once more before he disappears beneath the horizon.
I will climb up these rocks, they are as high as the highest trees!"
And then, taking hold of the creepers and roots, he climbed up on the wet stones, where water-snakes were wriggling and the toads, as it were, barked at him: he reached the top before the sun, seen from such a height, had quite set.
"Oh, what a splendour!"
The sea, the great majestic sea, which was rolling its long waves against the shore, stretched out before him, and the sun was standing like a large bright altar and there where sea and heaven met- all melted together in the most glowing colours; the wood was singing, and his heart too.
The whole of nature was one large holy church, in which the trees and hovering clouds formed the pillars, the flowers and grass the woven velvet carpet, and heaven itself was the great cupola; up there the flame colour vanished as soon as the sun disappeared, but millions of stars were lighted; diamond lamps were shining, and the king's son stretched his arms out towards heaven, towards the sea, and towards the wood.
Then suddenly the poor boy with the short-sleeved jacket and the wooden shoes appeared; he had arrived just as quickly on the road he had chosen.
And they ran towards each other and took one another's hand, in the great cathedral of nature and poesy, and above them sounded the invisible holy bell; happy spirits surrounded them, singing hallelujahs and rejoicing.
"DING-DONG! ding-dong!"
It sounds up from the "bell-deep" in the Odense-Au.
Every child in the old town of Odense, on the island of Funen, knows the Au, which washes the gardens round about the town, and flows on under the wooden bridges from the dam to the water-mill.
In the Au grow the yellow water-lilies and brown feathery reeds; the dark velvety flag grows there, high and thick; old and decayed willows, slanting and tottering, hang far out over the stream beside the monk's meadow and by the bleaching ground; but opposite there are gardens upon gardens, each different from the rest, some with pretty flowers and bowers like little dolls' pleasure grounds, often displaying cabbage and other kitchen plants; and here and there the gardens cannot be seen at all, for the great elder trees that spread themselves out by the bank, and hang far out over the streaming waters, which are deeper here and there than an oar can fathom.
Opposite the old nunnery is the deepest place, which is called the "bell-deep," and there dwells the old water spirit, the "Au-mann."
This spirit sleeps through the day while the sun shines down upon the water; but in starry and moonlit nights he shows himself.
He is very old.
Grandmother says that she has heard her own grandmother tell of him; he is said to lead a solitary life, and to have nobody with whom he can converse save the great old church Bell.
Once the Bell hung in the church tower; but now there is no trace left of the tower or of the church, which was called St. Alban's.
"Ding-dong! ding-dong!" sounded the Bell, when the tower still stood there; and one evening, while the sun was setting, and the Bell was swinging away bravely, it broke loose and came flying down through the air, the brilliant metal shining in the ruddy beam.
"Ding-dong! ding-dong!
Now I'll retire to rest!" sang the Bell, and flew down into the Odense-Au, where it is deepest; and that is why the place is called the "bell-deep."
But the Bell got neither rest nor sleep.
Down in the Au-mann's haunt it sounds and rings, so that the tones sometimes pierce upward through the waters; and many people maintain that its strains forebode the death of some one; but that is not true, for the Bell is only talking with the Au-mann, who is now no longer alone.
And what is the Bell telling?
It is old, very old, as we have already observed; it was there long before grandmother's grandmother was born; and yet it is but a child in comparison with the Au-mann, who is quite an old quiet personage, an oddity, with his hose of eel-skin, and his scaly Jacket with the yellow lilies for buttons, and a wreath of reed in his hair and seaweed in his beard; but he looks very pretty for all that.
What the Bell tells?
To repeat it all would require years and days; for year by year it is telling the old stories, sometimes short ones, sometimes long ones, according to its whim; it tells of old times, of the dark hard times, thus: "In the church of St. Alban, the monk had mounted up into the tower.
He was young and handsome, but thoughtful exceedingly.
He looked through the loophole out upon the Odense-Au, when the bed of the water was yet broad, and the monks' meadow was still a lake.
He looked out over it, and over the rampart, and over the nuns' hill opposite, where the convent lay, and the light gleamed forth from the nun's cell.
He had known the nun right well, and he thought of her, and his heart beat quicker as he thought.
Ding-dong! ding-dong!"
Yes, this was the story the Bell told.
"Into the tower came also the dapper man-servant of the bishop; and when I, the Bell, who am made of metal, rang hard and loud, and swung to and fro, I might have beaten out his brains.
He sat down close under me, and played with two little sticks as if they had been a stringed instrument; and he sang to it.
'Now I may sing it out aloud, though at other times I may not whisper it.
I may sing of everything that is kept concealed behind lock and bars.
Yonder it is cold and wet.
The rats are eating her up alive!
Nobody knows of it!
Nobody hears of it!
Not even now, for the bell is ringing and singing its loud Ding-dong, ding-dong!'
"There was a King in those days.
They called him Canute.
He bowed himself before bishop and monk; but when he offended the free peasants with heavy taxes and hard words, they seized their weapons and put him to flight like a wild beast.
He sought shelter in the church, and shut gate and door behind him.
The violent band surrounded the church; I heard tell of it.
The crows, ravens and magpies started up in terror at the yelling and shouting that sounded around.
They flew into the tower and out again, they looked down upon the throng below, and they also looked into the windows of the church, and screamed out aloud what they saw there.
King Canute knelt before the altar in prayer; his brothers Eric and Benedict stood by him as a guard with drawn swords; but the King's servant, the treacherous Blake, betrayed his master.
The throng in front of the church knew where they could hit the King, and one of them flung a stone through a pane of glass, and the King lay there dead!
The cries and screams of the savage horde and of the birds sounded through the air, and I joined in it also; for I sang 'Ding-dong! ding-dong!'
"The church bell hangs high, and looks far around, and sees the birds around it, and understands their language.
The wind roars in upon it through windows and loopholes; and the wind knows everything, for he gets it from the air, which encircles all things, and the church bell understands his tongue, and rings it out into the world, 'Ding-dong! ding-dong!'
"But it was too much for me to hear and to know; I was not able any longer to ring it out.
I became so tired, so heavy, that the beam broke, and I flew out into the gleaming Au, where the water is deepest, and where the Au-mann lives, solitary and alone; and year by year I tell him what I have heard and what I know.
Ding-dong! ding-dong" Thus it sounds complainingly out of the bell-deep in the Odense-Au.
That is what grandmother told us.
But the schoolmaster says that there was not any bell that rung down there, for that it could not do so; and that no Au-mann dwelt yonder, for there was no Au-mann at all!
And when all the other church bells are sounding sweetly, he says that it is not really the bells that are sounding, but that it is the air itself which sends forth the notes; and grandmother said to us that the Bell itself said it was the air who told it to him, consequently they are agreed on that point, and this much is sure.
"Be cautious, cautious, and take good heed to thyself," they both say.
The air knows everything.
It is around us, it is in us, it talks of our thoughts and of our deeds, and it speaks longer of them than does the Bell down in the depths of the Odense-Au where the Au-mann dwells.
It rings it out in the vault of heaven, far, far out, forever and ever, till the heaven bells sound "Ding-dong! ding-dong!"
OUR scene is laid in Northern Jutland, in the so-called "wild moor."
We hear what is called the "Wester-wow-wow"- the peculiar roar of the North Sea as it breaks against the western coast of Jutland.
It rolls and thunders with a sound that penetrates for miles into the land; and we are quite near the roaring.
Before us rises a great mound of sand- a mountain we have long seen, and towards which we are wending our way, driving slowly along through the deep sand.
On this mountain of sand is a lofty old building- the convent of Borglum.
In one of its wings (the larger one) there is still a church.
And at this convent we now arrive in the late evening hour; but the weather is clear in the bright June night around us, and the eye can range far, far over field and moor to the Bay of Aalborg, over heath and meadow, and far across the deep blue sea.
Now we are there, and roll past between barns and other farm buildings; and at the left of the gate we turn aside to the Old Castle Farm, where the lime trees stand in lines along the walls, and, sheltered from the wind and weather, grow so luxuriantly that their twigs and leaves almost conceal the windows.
We mount the winding staircase of stone, and march through the long passages under the heavy roof-beams.
The wind moans very strangely here, both within and without.
It is hardly known how, but the people say- yes, people say a great many things when they are frightened or want to frighten others- they say that the old dead choir-men glide silently past us into the church, where mass is sung.
They can be heard in the rushing of the storm, and their singing brings up strange thoughts in the hearers- thoughts of the old times into which we are carried back.
On the coast a ship is stranded; and the bishop's warriors are there, and spare not those whom the sea has spared.
The sea washes away the blood that has flowed from the cloven skulls.
The stranded goods belong to the bishop, and there is a store of goods here.
The sea casts up tubs and barrels filled with costly wine for the convent cellar, and in the convent is already good store of beer and mead.
There is plenty in the kitchen- dead game and poultry, hams and sausages; and fat fish swim in the ponds without.
The Bishop of Borglum is a mighty lord.
He has great possessions, but still he longs for more- everything must bow before the mighty Olaf Glob.
His rich cousin at Thyland is dead, and his widow is to have the rich inheritance.
But how comes it that one relation is always harder towards another than even strangers would be?
The widow's husband had possessed all Thyland, with the exception of the church property.
Her son was not at home.
In his boyhood he had already started on a journey, for his desire was to see foreign lands and strange people.
For years there had been no news of him.
Perhaps he had been long laid in the grave, and would never come back to his home, to rule where his mother then ruled.
"What has a woman to do with rule?" said the bishop.
He summoned the widow before a law court; but what did he gain thereby?
The widow had never been disobedient to the law, and was strong in her just rights.
Bishop Olaf of Borglum, what dost thou purpose?
What writest thou on yonder smooth parchment, sealing it with thy seal, and intrusting it to the horsemen and servants, who ride away, far away, to the city of the Pope?
It is the time of falling leaves and of stranded ships, and soon icy winter will come.
Twice had icy winter returned before the bishop welcomed the horsemen and servants back to their home.
They came from Rome with a papal decree- a ban, or bull, against the widow who had dared to offend the pious bishop.
"Cursed be she and all that belongs to her.
Let her be expelled from the congregation and the Church.
Let no man stretch forth a helping hand to her, and let friends and relations avoid her as a plague and a pestilence!"
"What will not bend must break," said the Bishop of Borglum And all forsake the widow; but she holds fast to her God.
He is her helper and defender.
One servant only- an old maid- remained faithful to her; and with the old servant, the widow herself followed the plough; and the crop grew, although the land had been cursed by the Pope and by the bishop.
"Thou child of perdition, I will yet carry out my purpose!" cried the Bishop of Borglum.
"Now will I lay the hand of the Pope upon thee, to summon thee before the tribunal that shall condemn thee!"
Then did the widow yoke the last two oxen that remained to her to a wagon, and mounted up on the wagon, with her old servant, and travelled away across the heath out of the Danish land.
As a stranger she came into a foreign country, where a strange tongue was spoken and where new customs prevailed.
Farther and farther she journeyed, to where green hills rise into mountains, and the vine clothes their sides.
Strange merchants drive by her, and they look anxiously after their wagons laden with merchandise.
They fear an attack from the armed followers of the robber-knights.
The two poor women, in their humble vehicle drawn by two black oxen, travel fearlessly through the dangerous sunken road and through the darksome forest.
And now they were in Franconia.
And there met them a stalwart knight, with a train of twelve armed followers.
He paused, gazed at the strange vehicle, and questioned the women as to the goal of their journey and the place whence they came.
Then one of them mentioned Thyland in Denmark, and spoke of her sorrows, of her woes, which were soon to cease, for so Divine Providence had willed it.
For the stranger knight is the widow's son!
He seized her hand, he embraced her, and the mother wept.
For years she had not been able to weep, but had only bitten her lips till the blood started.
It is the time of falling leaves and of stranded ships, and soon will icy winter come.
The sea rolled wine-tubs to the shore for the bishop's cellar.
In the kitchen the deer roasted on the spit before the fire.
At Borglum it was warm and cheerful in the heated rooms, while cold winter raged without, when a piece of news was brought to the bishop.
"Jens Glob, of Thyland, has come back, and his mother with him."
Jens Glob laid a complaint against the bishop, and summoned him before the temporal and the spiritual court.
"That will avail him little," said the bishop.
"Best leave off thy efforts, knight Jens."
Again it is the time of falling leaves and stranded ships.
Icy winter comes again, and the "white bees" are swarming, and sting the traveller's face till they melt.
"Keen weather to-day!" say the people, as they step in.
Jens Glob stands so deeply wrapped in thought, that he singes the skirt of his wide garment.
"Thou Borglum bishop," he exclaims, "I shall subdue thee after all!
Under the shield of the Pope, the law cannot reach thee; but Jens Glob shall reach thee!"
Then he writes a letter to his brother-in-law, Olaf Hase, in Sallingland, and prays that knight to meet him on Christmas eve, at mass, in the church at Widberg.
The bishop himself is to read the mass, and consequently will journey from Borglum to Thyland; and this is known to Jens Glob.
Moorland and meadow are covered with ice and snow.
The marsh will bear horse and rider, the bishop with his priests and armed men.
They ride the shortest way, through the waving reeds, where the wind moans sadly.
Blow thy brazen trumpet, thou trumpeter clad in fox-skin! it sounds merrily in the clear air.
So they ride on over heath and moorland- over what is the garden of Fata Morgana in the hot summer, though now icy, like all the country- towards the church of Widberg.
The wind is blowing his trumpet too- blowing it harder and harder.
He blows up a storm- a terrible storm- that increases more and more.
Towards the church they ride, as fast as they may through the storm.
The church stands firm, but the storm careers on over field and moorland, over land and sea.
Borglum's bishop reaches the church; but Olaf Hase will scarce do so, however hard he may ride.
He journeys with his warriors on the farther side of the bay, in order that he may help Jens Glob, now that the bishop is to be summoned before the judgment seat of the Highest.
The church is the judgment hall; the altar is the council table.
The lights burn clear in the heavy brass candelabra.
The storm reads out the accusation and the sentence, roaming in the air over moor and heath, and over the rolling waters.
No ferry-boat can sail over the bay in such weather as this.
Olaf Hase makes halt at Ottesworde.
There he dismisses his warriors, presents them with their horses and harness, and gives them leave to ride home and greet his wife.
He intends to risk his life alone in the roaring waters; but they are to bear witness for him that it is not his fault if Jens Glob stands without reinforcement in the church at Widberg.
The faithful warriors will not leave him, but follow him out into the deep waters.
Ten of them are carried away; but Olaf Hase and two of the youngest men reach the farther side.
They have still four miles to ride.
It is past midnight.
It is Christmas.
The wind has abated.
The church is lighted up; the gleaming radiance shines through the window-frames, and pours out over meadow and heath.
The mass has long been finished, silence reigns in the church, and the wax is heard dropping from the candles to the stone pavement.
And now Olaf Hase arrives.
In the forecourt Jens Glob greets him kindly, and says, "I have just made an agreement with the bishop."
"Sayest thou so?" replied Olaf Hase.
"Then neither thou nor the bishop shall quit this church alive."
And the sword leaps from the scabbard, and Olaf Hase deals a blow that makes the panel of the church door, which Jens Glob hastily closes between them, fly in fragments.
"Hold, brother!
First hear what the agreement was that I made.
I have slain the bishop and his warriors and priests.
They will have no word more to say in the matter, nor will I speak again of all the wrong that my mother has endured."
The long wicks of the altar lights glimmer red; but there is a redder gleam upon the pavement, where the bishop lies with cloven skull, and his dead warriors around him, in the quiet of the holy Christmas night.
And four days afterwards the bells toll for a funeral in the convent of Borglum.
The murdered bishop and the slain warriors and priests are displayed under a black canopy, surrounded by candelabra decked with crape.
There lies the dead man, in the black cloak wrought with silver; the crozier in the powerless hand that was once so mighty.
The incense rises in clouds, and the monks chant the funeral hymn.
It sounds like a wail- it sounds like a sentence of wrath and condemnation, that must be heard far over the land, carried by the wind- sung by the wind- the wail that sometimes is silent, but never dies; for ever again it rises in song, singing even into our own time this legend of the Bishop of Borglum and his hard nephew.
It is heard in the dark night by the frightened husbandman, driving by in the heavy sandy road past the convent of Borglum.
It is heard by the sleepless listener in the thickly-walled rooms at Borglum.
And not only to the ear of superstition is the sighing and the tread of hurrying feet audible in the long echoing passages leading to the convent door that has long been locked.
The door still seems to open, and the lights seem to flame in the brazen candlesticks; the fragrance of incense arises; the church gleams in its ancient splendor; and the monks sing and say the mass over the slain bishop, who lies there in the black silver-embroidered mantle, with the crozier in his powerless hand; and on his pale proud forehead gleams the red wound like fire, and there burn the worldly mind and the wicked thoughts.
Sink down into his grave- into oblivion- ye terrible shapes of the times of old!
Hark to the raging of the angry wind, sounding above the rolling sea!
A storm approaches without, calling aloud for human lives.
The sea has not put on a new mind with the new time.
This night it is a horrible pit to devour up lives, and to-morrow, perhaps, it may be a glassy mirror- even as in the old time that we have buried.
Sleep sweetly, if thou canst sleep!
Now it is morning.
The new time flings sunshine into the room.
The wind still keeps up mightily.
A wreck is announced- as in the old time.
During the night, down yonder by Lokken, the little fishing village with the red-tiled roofs- we can see it up here from the window- a ship has come ashore.
It has struck, and is fast embedded in the sand; but the rocket apparatus has thrown a rope on board, and formed a bridge from the wreck to the mainland; and all on board are saved, and reach the land, and are wrapped in warm blankets; and to-day they are invited to the farm at the convent of Borglum.
In comfortable rooms they encounter hospitality and friendly faces.
They are addressed in the language of their country, and the piano sounds for them with melodies of their native land; and before these have died away, the chord has been struck, the wire of thought that reaches to the land of the sufferers announces that they are rescued.
Then their anxieties are dispelled; and at even they join in the dance at the feast given in the great hall at Borglum.
Waltzes and Styrian dances are given, and Danish popular songs, and melodies of foreign lands in these modern times.
Blessed be thou, new time!
Speak thou of summer and of purer gales!
Send thy sunbeams gleaming into our hearts and thoughts!
On thy glowing canvas let them be painted- the dark legends of the rough hard times that are past!
CLOSE to the corner of a street, among other abodes of poverty, stood an exceedingly tall, narrow house, which had been so knocked about by time that it seemed out of joint in every direction.
This house was inhabited by poor people, but the deepest poverty was apparent in the garret lodging in the gable.
In front of the little window, an old bent bird-cage hung in the sunshine, which had not even a proper water-glass, but instead of it the broken neck of a bottle, turned upside down, and a cork stuck in to make it hold the water with which it was filled.
An old maid stood at the window; she had hung chickweed over the cage, and the little linnet which it contained hopped from perch to perch and sang and twittered merrily.
"Yes, it's all very well for you to sing," said the bottle neck: that is, he did not really speak the words as we do, for the neck of a bottle cannot speak; but he thought them to himself in his own mind, just as people sometimes talk quietly to themselves.
"Yes, you may sing very well, you have all your limbs uninjured; you should feel what it is like to lose your body, and only have a neck and a mouth left, with a cork stuck in it, as I have: you wouldn't sing then, I know.
After all, it is just as well that there are some who can be happy.
I have no reason to sing, nor could I sing now if I were ever so happy; but when I was a whole bottle, and they rubbed me with a cork, didn't I sing then?
I used to be called a complete lark.
I remember when I went out to a picnic with the furrier's family, on the day his daughter was betrothed,- it seems as if it only happened yesterday.
I have gone through a great deal in my time, when I come to recollect: I have been in the fire and in the water, I have been deep in the earth, and have mounted higher in the air than most other people, and now I am swinging here, outside a bird-cage, in the air and the sunshine.
Oh, indeed, it would be worth while to hear my history; but I do not speak it aloud, for a good reason- because I cannot."
Then the bottle neck related his history, which was really rather remarkable; he, in fact, related it to himself, or, at least, thought it in his own mind.
The little bird sang his own song merrily; in the street below there was driving and running to and fro, every one thought of his own affairs, or perhaps of nothing at all; but the bottle neck thought deeply.
He thought of the blazing furnace in the factory, where he had been blown into life; he remembered how hot it felt when he was placed in the heated oven, the home from which he sprang, and that he had a strong inclination to leap out again directly; but after a while it became cooler, and he found himself very comfortable.
He had been placed in a row, with a whole regiment of his brothers and sisters all brought out of the same furnace; some of them had certainly been blown into champagne bottles, and others into beer bottles, which made a little difference between them.
In the world it often happens that a beer bottle may contain the most precious wine, and a champagne bottle be filled with blacking, but even in decay it may always be seen whether a man has been well born.
Nobility remains noble, as a champagne bottle remains the same, even with blacking in its interior.
When the bottles were packed our bottle was packed amongst them; it little expected then to finish its career as a bottle neck, or to be used as a water-glass to a bird's-cage, which is, after all, a place of honor, for it is to be of some use in the world.
The bottle did not behold the light of day again, until it was unpacked with the rest in the wine merchant's cellar, and, for the first time, rinsed with water, which caused some very curious sensations.
There it lay empty, and without a cork, and it had a peculiar feeling, as if it wanted something it knew not what.
At last it was filled with rich and costly wine, a cork was placed in it, and sealed down.
Then it was labelled "first quality," as if it had carried off the first prize at an examination; besides, the wine and the bottle were both good, and while we are young is the time for poetry.
There were sounds of song within the bottle, of things it could not understand, of green sunny mountains, where the vines grow and where the merry vine-dressers laugh, sing, and are merry.
"Ah, how beautiful is life."
All these tones of joy and song in the bottle were like the working of a young poet's brain, who often knows not the meaning of the tones which are sounding within him.
One morning the bottle found a purchaser in the furrier's apprentice, who was told to bring one of the best bottles of wine.
It was placed in the provision basket with ham and cheese and sausages.
The sweetest fresh butter and the finest bread were put into the basket by the furrier's daughter herself, for she packed it.
She was young and pretty; her brown eyes laughed, and a smile lingered round her mouth as sweet as that in her eyes.
She had delicate hands, beautifully white, and her neck was whiter still.
It could easily be seen that she was a very lovely girl, and as yet she was not engaged.
The provision basket lay in the lap of the young girl as the family drove out to the forest, and the neck of the bottle peeped out from between the folds of the white napkin.
There was the red wax on the cork, and the bottle looked straight at the young girl's face, and also at the face of the young sailor who sat near her.
He was a young friend, the son of a portrait painter.
He had lately passed his examination with honor, as mate, and the next morning he was to sail in his ship to a distant coast.
There had been a great deal of talk on this subject while the basket was being packed, and during this conversation the eyes and the mouth of the furrier's daughter did not wear a very joyful expression.
The young people wandered away into the green wood, and talked together.
What did they talk about?
The bottle could not say, for he was in the provision basket.
It remained there a long time; but when at last it was brought forth it appeared as if something pleasant had happened, for every one was laughing; the furrier's daughter laughed too, but she said very little, and her cheeks were like two roses.
Then her father took the bottle and the cork-screw into his hands.
What a strange sensation it was to have the cork drawn for the first time!
The bottle could never after that forget the performance of that moment; indeed there was quite a convulsion within him as the cork flew out, and a gurgling sound as the wine was poured forth into the glasses.
"Long life to the betrothed," cried the papa, and every glass was emptied to the dregs, while the young sailor kissed his beautiful bride.
"Happiness and blessing to you both," said the old people-father and mother, and the young man filled the glasses again.
"Safe return, and a wedding this day next year," he cried; and when the glasses were empty he took the bottle, raised it on high, and said, "Thou hast been present here on the happiest day of my life; thou shalt never be used by others!"
So saying, he hurled it high in the air.
The furrier's daughter thought she should never see it again, but she was mistaken.
It fell among the rushes on the borders of a little woodland lake.
The bottle neck remembered well how long it lay there unseen.
"I gave them wine, and they gave me muddy water," he had said to himself, "but I suppose it was all well meant."
He could no longer see the betrothed couple, nor the cheerful old people; but for a long time he could hear them rejoicing and singing.
At length there came by two peasant boys, who peeped in among the reeds and spied out the bottle.
Then they took it up and carried it home with them, so that once more it was provided for.
At home in their wooden cottage these boys had an elder brother, a sailor, who was about to start on a long voyage.
He had been there the day before to say farewell, and his mother was now very busy packing up various things for him to take with him on his voyage.
In the evening his father was going to carry the parcel to the town to see his son once more, and take him a farewell greeting from his mother.
A small bottle had already been filled with herb tea, mixed with brandy, and wrapped in a parcel; but when the boys came in they brought with them a larger and stronger bottle, which they had found.
This bottle would hold so much more than the little one, and they all said the brandy would be so good for complaints of the stomach, especially as it was mixed with medical herbs.
The liquid which they now poured into the bottle was not like the red wine with which it had once been filled; these were bitter drops, but they are of great use sometimes-for the stomach.
The new large bottle was to go, not the little one: so the bottle once more started on its travels.
It was taken on board (for Peter Jensen was one of the crew) the very same ship in which the young mate was to sail.
But the mate did not see the bottle: indeed, if he had he would not have known it, or supposed it was the one out of which they had drunk to the felicity of the betrothed and to the prospect of a marriage on his own happy return.
Certainly the bottle no longer poured forth wine, but it contained something quite as good; and so it happened that whenever Peter Jensen brought it out, his messmates gave it the name of "the apothecary," for it contained the best medicine to cure the stomach, and he gave it out quite willingly as long as a drop remained.
Those were happy days, and the bottle would sing when rubbed with a cork, and it was called a great lark," "Peter Jensen's lark."
Long days and months rolled by, during which the bottle stood empty in a corner, when a storm arose- whether on the passage out or home it could not tell, for it had never been ashore.
It was a terrible storm, great waves arose, darkly heaving and tossing the vessel to and fro.
The main mast was split asunder, the ship sprang a leak, and the pumps became useless, while all around was black as night.
At the last moment, when the ship was sinking, the young mate wrote on a piece of paper, "We are going down: God's will be done."
Then he wrote the name of his betrothed, his own name, and that of the ship.
Then he put the leaf in an empty bottle that happened to be at hand, corked it down tightly, and threw it into the foaming sea.
He knew not that it was the very same bottle from which the goblet of joy and hope had once been filled for him, and now it was tossing on the waves with his last greeting, and a message from the dead.
The ship sank, and the crew sank with her; but the bottle flew on like a bird, for it bore within it a loving letter from a loving heart.
And as the sun rose and set, the bottle felt as at the time of its first existence, when in the heated glowing stove it had a longing to fly away.
It outlived the storms and the calm, it struck against no rocks, was not devoured by sharks, but drifted on for more than a year, sometimes towards the north, sometimes towards the south, just as the current carried it.
It was in all other ways its own master, but even of that one may get tired.
The written leaf, the last farewell of the bridegroom to his bride, would only bring sorrow when once it reached her hands; but where were those hands, so soft and delicate, which had once spread the table-cloth on the fresh grass in the green wood, on the day of her betrothal?
Ah, yes! where was the furrier's daughter? and where was the land which might lie nearest to her home?
The bottle knew not, it travelled onward and onward, and at last all this wandering about became wearisome; at all events it was not its usual occupation.
But it had to travel, till at length it reached land- a foreign country.
Not a word spoken in this country could the bottle understand; it was a language it had never before heard, and it is a great loss not to be able to understand a language.
The bottle was fished out of the water, and examined on all sides.
The little letter contained within it was discovered, taken out, and turned and twisted in every direction; but the people could not understand what was written upon it.
They could be quite sure that the bottle had been thrown overboard from a vessel, and that something about it was written on this paper: but what was written? that was the question,- so the paper was put back into the bottle, and then both were put away in a large cupboard of one of the great houses of the town.
Whenever any strangers arrived, the paper was taken out and turned over and over, so that the address, which was only written in pencil, became almost illegible, and at last no one could distinguish any letters on it at all.
For a whole year the bottle remained standing in the cupboard, and then it was taken up to the loft, where it soon became covered with dust and cobwebs.
Ah! how often then it thought of those better days- of the times when in the fresh, green wood, it had poured forth rich wine; or, while rocked by the swelling waves, it had carried in its bosom a secret, a letter, a last parting sigh.
For full twenty years it stood in the loft, and it might have stayed there longer but that the house was going to be rebuilt.
The bottle was discovered when the roof was taken off; they talked about it, but the bottle did not understand what they said- a language is not to be learnt by living in a loft, even for twenty years.
"If I had been down stairs in the room," thought the bottle, "I might have learnt it."
It was now washed and rinsed, which process was really quite necessary, and afterwards it looked clean and transparent, and felt young again in its old age; but the paper which it had carried so faithfully was destroyed in the washing.
They filled the bottle with seeds, though it scarcely knew what had been placed in it.
Then they corked it down tightly, and carefully wrapped it up.
There not even the light of a torch or lantern could reach it, much less the brightness of the sun or moon.
"And yet," thought the bottle, "men go on a journey that they may see as much as possible, and I can see nothing."
However, it did something quite as important; it travelled to the place of its destination, and was unpacked.
"What trouble they have taken with that bottle over yonder!" said one, and very likely it is broken after all."
But the bottle was not broken, and, better still, it understood every word that was said: this language it had heard at the furnaces and at the wine merchant's; in the forest and on the ship,- it was the only good old language it could understand.
It had returned home, and the language was as a welcome greeting.
For very joy, it felt ready to jump out of people's hands, and scarcely noticed that its cork had been drawn, and its contents emptied out, till it found itself carried to a cellar, to be left there and forgotten.
"There's no place like home, even if it's a cellar."
It never occurred to him to think that he might lie there for years, he felt so comfortable.
For many long years he remained in the cellar, till at last some people came to carry away the bottles, and ours amongst the number.
Out in the garden there was a great festival.
Brilliant lamps hung in festoons from tree to tree; and paper lanterns, through which the light shone till they looked like transparent tulips.
It was a beautiful evening, and the weather mild and clear.
The stars twinkled; and the new moon, in the form of a crescent, was surrounded by the shadowy disc of the whole moon, and looked like a gray globe with a golden rim: it was a beautiful sight for those who had good eyes.
The illumination extended even to the most retired of the garden walks, at least not so retired that any one need lose himself there.
In the borders were placed bottles, each containing a light, and among them the bottle with which we are acquainted, and whose fate it was, one day, to be only a bottle neck, and to serve as a water-glass to a bird's-cage.
Everything here appeared lovely to our bottle, for it was again in the green wood, amid joy and feasting; again it heard music and song, and the noise and murmur of a crowd, especially in that part of the garden where the lamps blazed, and the paper lanterns displayed their brilliant colors.
It stood in a distant walk certainly, but a place pleasant for contemplation; and it carried a light; and was at once useful and ornamental.
In such an hour it is easy to forget that one has spent twenty years in a loft, and a good thing it is to be able to do so.
Close before the bottle passed a single pair, like the bridal pair- the mate and the furrier's daughter- who had so long ago wandered in the wood.
It seemed to the bottle as if he were living that time over again.
Not only the guests but other people were walking in the garden, who were allowed to witness the splendor and the festivities.
Among the latter came an old maid, who seemed to be quite alone in the world.
She was thinking, like the bottle, of the green wood, and of a young betrothed pair, who were closely connected with herself; she was thinking of that hour, the happiest of her life, in which she had taken part, when she had herself been one of that betrothed pair; such hours are never to be forgotten, let a maiden be as old as she may.
But she did not recognize the bottle, neither did the bottle notice the old maid.
And so we often pass each other in the world when we meet, as did these two, even while together in the same town.
The bottle was taken from the garden, and again sent to a wine merchant, where it was once more filled with wine, and sold to an aeronaut, who was to make an ascent in his balloon on the following Sunday.
A great crowd assembled to witness the sight; military music had been engaged, and many other preparations made.
The bottle saw it all from the basket in which he lay close to a live rabbit.
The rabbit was quite excited because he knew that he was to be taken up, and let down again in a parachute.
The bottle, however, knew nothing of the "up," or the "down;" he saw only that the balloon was swelling larger and larger till it could swell no more, and began to rise and be restless.
Then the ropes which held it were cut through, and the aerial ship rose in the air with the aeronaut and the basket containing the bottle and the rabbit, while the music sounded and all the people shouted "Hurrah."
"This is a wonderful journey up into the air," thought the bottle; "it is a new way of sailing, and here, at least, there is no fear of striking against anything."
Thousands of people gazed at the balloon, and the old maid who was in the garden saw it also; for she stood at the open window of the garret, by which hung the cage containing the linnet, who then had no water-glass, but was obliged to be contented with an old cup.
In the window-sill stood a myrtle in a pot, and this had been pushed a little on one side, that it might not fall out; for the old maid was leaning out of the window, that she might see.
And she did see distinctly the aeronaut in the balloon, and how he let down the rabbit in the parachute, and then drank to the health of all the spectators in the wine from the bottle.
After doing this, he hurled it high into the air.
How little she thought that this was the very same bottle which her friend had thrown aloft in her honor, on that happy day of rejoicing, in the green wood, in her youthful days.
The bottle had no time to think, when raised so suddenly; and before it was aware, it reached the highest point it had ever attained in its life.
Steeples and roofs lay far, far beneath it, and the people looked as tiny as possible.
Then it began to descend much more rapidly than the rabbit had done, made somersaults in the air, and felt itself quite young and unfettered, although it was half full of wine.
But this did not last long.
What a journey it was!
All the people could see the bottle; for the sun shone upon it.
The balloon was already far away, and very soon the bottle was far away also; for it fell upon a roof, and broke in pieces.
But the pieces had got such an impetus in them, that they could not stop themselves.
They went jumping and rolling about, till at last they fell into the court-yard, and were broken into still smaller pieces; only the neck of the bottle managed to keep whole, and it was broken off as clean as if it had been cut with a diamond.
"That would make a capital bird's glass," said one of the cellar-men; but none of them had either a bird or a cage, and it was not to be expected they would provide one just because they had found a bottle neck that could be used as a glass.
But the old maid who lived in the garret had a bird, and it really might be useful to her; so the bottle neck was provided with a cork, and taken up to her; and, as it often happens in life, the part that had been uppermost was now turned downwards, and it was filled with fresh water.
Then they hung it in the cage of the little bird, who sang and twittered more merrily than ever.
"Ah, you have good reason to sing," said the bottle neck, which was looked upon as something very remarkable, because it had been in a balloon; nothing further was known of its history.
As it hung there in the bird's-cage, it could hear the noise and murmur of the people in the street below, as well as the conversation of the old maid in the room within.
An old friend had just come to visit her, and they talked, not about the bottle neck, but of the myrtle in the window.
"No, you must not spend a dollar for your daughter's bridal bouquet," said the old maid; "you shall have a beautiful little bunch for a nosegay, full of blossoms.
Do you see how splendidly the tree has grown?
It has been raised from only a little sprig of myrtle that you gave me on the day after my betrothal, and from which I was to make my own bridal bouquet when a year had passed: but that day never came; the eyes were closed which were to have been my light and joy through life.
In the depths of the sea my beloved sleeps sweetly; the myrtle has become an old tree, and I am a still older woman.
Before the sprig you gave me faded, I took a spray, and planted it in the earth; and now, as you see, it has become a large tree, and a bunch of the blossoms shall at last appear at a wedding festival, in the bouquet of your daughter."
There were tears in the eyes of the old maid, as she spoke of the beloved of her youth, and of their betrothal in the wood.
Many thoughts came into her mind; but the thought never came, that quite close to her, in that very window, was a remembrance of those olden times,- the neck of the bottle which had, as it were shouted for joy when the cork flew out with a bang on the betrothal day.
But the bottle neck did not recognize the old maid; he had not been listening to what she had related, perhaps because he was thinking so much about her.
VERY often, after a violent thunder-storm, a field of buckwheat appears blackened and singed, as if a flame of fire had passed over it.
The country people say that this appearance is caused by lightning; but I will tell you what the sparrow says, and the sparrow heard it from an old willow-tree which grew near a field of buckwheat, and is there still.
It is a large venerable tree, though a little crippled by age.
The trunk has been split, and out of the crevice grass and brambles grow.
The tree bends for-ward slightly, and the branches hang quite down to the ground just like green hair.
Corn grows in the surrounding fields, not only rye and barley, but oats,-pretty oats that, when ripe, look like a number of little golden canary-birds sitting on a bough.
The corn has a smiling look and the heaviest and richest ears bend their heads low as if in pious humility.
Once there was also a field of buckwheat, and this field was exactly opposite to old willow-tree.
The buckwheat did not bend like the other grain, but erected its head proudly and stiffly on the stem.
"I am as valuable as any other corn," said he, "and I am much handsomer; my flowers are as beautiful as the bloom of the apple blossom, and it is a pleasure to look at us.
Do you know of anything prettier than we are, you old willow-tree?"
And the willow-tree nodded his head, as if he would say, "Indeed I do."
But the buckwheat spread itself out with pride, and said, "Stupid tree; he is so old that grass grows out of his body."
There arose a very terrible storm.
All the field-flowers folded their leaves together, or bowed their little heads, while the storm passed over them, but the buckwheat stood erect in its pride.
"Bend your head as we do," said the flowers.
"I have no occasion to do so," replied the buckwheat.
"Bend your head as we do," cried the ears of corn; "the angel of the storm is coming; his wings spread from the sky above to the earth beneath.
He will strike you down before you can cry for mercy."
"But I will not bend my head," said the buckwheat.
"Close your flowers and bend your leaves," said the old willow-tree.
"Do not look at the lightning when the cloud bursts; even men cannot do that.
In a flash of lightning heaven opens, and we can look in; but the sight will strike even human beings blind.
What then must happen to us, who only grow out of the earth, and are so inferior to them, if we venture to do so?"
"Inferior, indeed!" said the buckwheat.
"Now I intend to have a peep into heaven."
Proudly and boldly he looked up, while the lightning flashed across the sky as if the whole world were in flames.
When the dreadful storm had passed, the flowers and the corn raised their drooping heads in the pure still air, refreshed by the rain, but the buckwheat lay like a weed in the field, burnt to blackness by the lightning.
The branches of the old willow-tree rustled in the wind, and large water-drops fell from his green leaves as if the old willow were weeping.
Then the sparrows asked why he was weeping, when all around him seemed so cheerful.
"See," they said, how the sun shines, and the clouds float in the blue sky.
Do you not smell the sweet perfume from flower and bush?
Wherefore do you weep, old willow-tree?"
Then the willow told them of the haughty pride of the buckwheat, and of the punishment which followed in consequence.
This is the story told me by the sparrows one evening when I begged them to relate some tale to me.
THERE was once a butterfly who wished for a bride, and, as may be supposed, he wanted to choose a very pretty one from among the flowers.
He glanced, with a very critical eye, at all the flower-beds, and found that the flowers were seated quietly and demurely on their stalks, just as maidens should sit before they are engaged; but there was a great number of them, and it appeared as if his search would become very wearisome.
The butterfly did not like to take too much trouble, so he flew off on a visit to the daisies.
The French call this flower "Marguerite," and they say that the little daisy can prophesy.
Lovers pluck off the leaves, and as they pluck each leaf, they ask a question about their lovers; thus: "Does he or she love me?- Ardently?
Distractedly?
Very much?
A little?
Not at all?" and so on.
Every one speaks these words in his own language.
The butterfly came also to Marguerite to inquire, but he did not pluck off her leaves; he pressed a kiss on each of them, for he thought there was always more to be done by kindness.
"Darling Marguerite daisy," he said to her, "you are the wisest woman of all the flowers.
Pray tell me which of the flowers I shall choose for my wife.
Which will be my bride?
When I know, I will fly directly to her, and propose."
But Marguerite did not answer him; she was offended that he should call her a woman when she was only a girl; and there is a great difference.
He asked her a second time, and then a third; but she remained dumb, and answered not a word.
Then he would wait no longer, but flew away, to commence his wooing at once.
It was in the early spring, when the crocus and the snowdrop were in full bloom.
"They are very pretty," thought the butterfly; "charming little lasses; but they are rather formal."
Then, as the young lads often do, he looked out for the elder girls.
He next flew to the anemones; these were rather sour to his taste.
The violet, a little too sentimental.
The lime-blossoms, too small, and besides, there was such a large family of them.
The apple-blossoms, though they looked like roses, bloomed to-day, but might fall off to-morrow, with the first wind that blew; and he thought that a marriage with one of them might last too short a time.
The pea-blossom pleased him most of all; she was white and red, graceful and slender, and belonged to those domestic maidens who have a pretty appearance, and can yet be useful in the kitchen.
He was just about to make her an offer, when, close by the maiden, he saw a pod, with a withered flower hanging at the end.
"Who is that?" he asked.
"That is my sister," replied the pea-blossom.
"Oh, indeed; and you will be like her some day," said he; and he flew away directly, for he felt quite shocked.
A honeysuckle hung forth from the hedge, in full bloom; but there were so many girls like her, with long faces and sallow complexions.
No; he did not like her.
But which one did he like?
Spring went by, and summer drew towards its close; autumn came; but he had not decided.
The flowers now appeared in their most gorgeous robes, but all in vain; they had not the fresh, fragrant air of youth.
For the heart asks for fragrance, even when it is no longer young; and there is very little of that to be found in the dahlias or the dry chrysanthemums; therefore the butterfly turned to the mint on the ground.
You know, this plant has no blossom; but it is sweetness all over,- full of fragrance from head to foot, with the scent of a flower in every leaf.
"I will take her," said the butterfly; and he made her an offer.
But the mint stood silent and stiff, as she listened to him.
At last she said,- "Friendship, if you please; nothing more.
I am old, and you are old, but we may live for each other just the same; as to marrying- no; don't let us appear ridiculous at our age."
And so it happened that the butterfly got no wife at all.
He had been too long choosing, which is always a bad plan.
And the butterfly became what is called an old bachelor.
It was late in the autumn, with rainy and cloudy weather.
The cold wind blew over the bowed backs of the willows, so that they creaked again.
It was not the weather for flying about in summer clothes; but fortunately the butterfly was not out in it.
He had got a shelter by chance.
It was in a room heated by a stove, and as warm as summer.
He could exist here, he said, well enough.
"But it is not enough merely to exist," said he, "I need freedom, sunshine, and a little flower for a companion."
Then he flew against the window-pane, and was seen and admired by those in the room, who caught him, and stuck him on a pin, in a box of curiosities.
They could not do more for him.
"Now I am perched on a stalk, like the flowers," said the butterfly.
"It is not very pleasant, certainly; I should imagine it is something like being married; for here I am stuck fast."
And with this thought he consoled himself a little.
"That seems very poor consolation," said one of the plants in the room, that grew in a pot.
"Ah," thought the butterfly, "one can't very well trust these plants in pots; they have too much to do with mankind."
FROM my father I received the best inheritance, namely a "good temper."
"And who was my father?"
That has nothing to do with the good temper; but I will say he was lively, good-looking round, and fat; he was both in appearance and character a complete contradiction to his profession.
"And pray what was his profession and his standing in respectable society?"
Well, perhaps, if in the beginning of a book these were written and printed, many, when they read it, would lay the book down and say, "It seems to me a very miserable title, I don't like things of this sort."
And yet my father was not a skin-dresser nor an executioner; on the contrary, his employment placed him at the head of the grandest people of the town, and it was his place by right.
He had to precede the bishop, and even the princes of the blood; he always went first,- he was a hearse driver!
There, now, the truth is out.
And I will own, that when people saw my father perched up in front of the omnibus of death, dressed in his long, wide, black cloak, and his black-edged, three-cornered hat on his head, and then glanced at his round, jocund face, round as the sun, they could not think much of sorrow or the grave.
That face said, "It is nothing, it will all end better than people think."
So I have inherited from him, not only my good temper, but a habit of going often to the churchyard, which is good, when done in a proper humor; and then also I take in the Intelligencer, just as he used to do.
I am not very young, I have neither wife nor children, nor a library, but, as I said, I read the Intelligencer, which is enough for me; it is to me a delightful paper, and so it was to my father.
It is of great use, for it contains all that a man requires to know; the names of the preachers at the church, and the new books which are published; where houses, servants, clothes, and provisions may be obtained.
And then what a number of subscriptions to charities, and what innocent verses!
Persons seeking interviews and engagements, all so plainly and naturally stated.
Certainly, a man who takes in the Intelligencer may live merrily and be buried contentedly, and by the end of his life will have such a capital stock of paper that he can lie on a soft bed of it, unless he prefers wood shavings for his resting-place.
The newspaper and the churchyard were always exciting objects to me.
My walks to the latter were like bathing-places to my good humor.
Every one can read the newspaper for himself, but come with me to the churchyard while the sun shines and the trees are green, and let us wander among the graves.
Each of them is like a closed book, with the back uppermost, on which we can read the title of what the book contains, but nothing more.
I had a great deal of information from my father, and I have noticed a great deal myself.
I keep it in my diary, in which I write for my own use and pleasure a history of all who lie here, and a few more beside.
Now we are in the churchyard.
Here, behind the white iron railings, once a rose-tree grew; it is gone now, but a little bit of evergreen, from a neighboring grave, stretches out its green tendrils, and makes some appearance; there rests a very unhappy man, and yet while he lived he might be said to occupy a very good position.
He had enough to live upon, and something to spare; but owing to his refined tastes the least thing in the world annoyed him.
If he went to a theatre of an evening, instead of enjoying himself he would be quite annoyed if the machinist had put too strong a light into one side of the moon, or if the representations of the sky hung over the scenes when they ought to have hung behind them; or if a palm-tree was introduced into a scene representing the Zoological Gardens of Berlin, or a cactus in a view of Tyrol, or a beech-tree in the north of Norway.
As if these things were of any consequence!
Why did he not leave them alone?
Who would trouble themselves about such trifles? especially at a comedy, where every one is expected to be amused.
Then sometimes the public applauded too much, or too little, to please him.
"They are like wet wood," he would say, looking round to see what sort of people were present, "this evening; nothing fires them."
Then he would vex and fret himself because they did not laugh at the right time, or because they laughed in the wrong places; and so he fretted and worried himself till at last the unhappy man fretted himself into the grave.
Here rests a happy man, that is to say, a man of high birth and position, which was very lucky for him, otherwise he would have been scarcely worth notice.
It is beautiful to observe how wisely nature orders these things.
He walked about in a coat embroidered all over, and in the drawing-rooms of society looked just like one of those rich pearl-embroidered bell-pulls, which are only made for show; and behind them always hangs a good thick cord for use.
This man also had a stout, useful substitute behind him, who did duty for him, and performed all his dirty work.
And there are still, even now, these serviceable cords behind other embroidered bell-ropes.
It is all so wisely arranged, that a man may well be in a good humor.
Here rests,- ah, it makes one feel mournful to think of him!- but here rests a man who, during sixty-seven years, was never remembered to have said a good thing; he lived only in the hope of having a good idea.
At last he felt convinced, in his own mind, that he really had one, and was so delighted that he positively died of joy at the thought of having at last caught an idea.
Nobody got anything by it; indeed, no one even heard what the good thing was.
Now I can imagine that this same idea may prevent him from resting quietly in his grave; for suppose that to produce a good effect, it is necessary to bring out his new idea at breakfast, and that he can only make his appearance on earth at midnight, as ghosts are believed generally to do; why then this good idea would not suit the hour, and the man would have to carry it down again with him into the grave- that must be a troubled grave.
The woman who lies here was so remarkably stingy, that during her life she would get up in the night and mew, that her neighbors might think she kept a cat.
What a miser she was!
Here rests a young lady, of a good family, who would always make her voice heard in society, and when she sang "Mi manca la voce,"* it was the only true thing she ever said in her life.
* "I want a voice," or, "I have no voice."
Here lies a maiden of another description.
She was engaged to be married,- but, her story is one of every-day life; we will leave her to rest in the grave.
Here rests a widow, who, with music in her tongue, carried gall in her heart.
She used to go round among the families near, and search out their faults, upon which she preyed with all the envy and malice of her nature.
This is a family grave.
The members of this family held so firmly together in their opinions, that they would believe in no other.
If the newspapers, or even the whole world, said of a certain subject, "It is so-and-so;" and a little schoolboy declared he had learned quite differently, they would take his assertion as the only true one, because he belonged to the family.
And it is well known that if the yard-cock belonging to this family happened to crow at midnight, they would declare it was morning, although the watchman and all the clocks in the town were proclaiming the hour of twelve at night.
The great poet Goethe concludes his Faust with the words, "may be continued;" so might our wanderings in the churchyard be continued.
I come here often, and if any of my friends, or those who are not my friends, are too much for me, I go out and choose a plot of ground in which to bury him or her.
Then I bury them, as it were; there they lie, dead and powerless, till they come back new and better characters.
Their lives and their deeds, looked at after my own fashion, I write down in my diary, as every one ought to do.
Then, if any of our friends act absurdly, no one need to be vexed about it.
Let them bury the offenders out of sight, and keep their good temper.
They can also read the Intelligencer, which is a paper written by the people, with their hands guided.
When the time comes for the history of my life, to be bound by the grave, then they will write upon it as my epitaph-
"The man with a cheerful temper."
And this is my story.
IT was a very sad day, and every heart in the house felt the deepest grief; for the youngest child, a boy of four years old, the joy and hope of his parents, was dead.
Two daughters, the elder of whom was going to be confirmed, still remained: they were both good, charming girls; but the lost child always seems the dearest; and when it is youngest, and a son, it makes the trial still more heavy.
The sisters mourned as young hearts can mourn, and were especially grieved at the sight of their parents' sorrow.
The father's heart was bowed down, but the mother sunk completely under the deep grief.
Day and night she had attended to the sick child, nursing and carrying it in her bosom, as a part of herself.
She could not realize the fact that the child was dead, and must be laid in a coffin to rest in the ground.
She thought God could not take her darling little one from her; and when it did happen notwithstanding her hopes and her belief, and there could be no more doubt on the subject, she said in her feverish agony, "God does not know it.
He has hard-hearted ministering spirits on earth, who do according to their own will, and heed not a mother's prayers."
Thus in her great grief she fell away from her faith in God, and dark thoughts arose in her mind respecting death and a future state.
She tried to believe that man was but dust, and that with his life all existence ended.
But these doubts were no support to her, nothing on which she could rest, and she sunk into the fathomless depths of despair.
In her darkest hours she ceased to weep, and thought not of the young daughters who were still left to her.
The tears of her husband fell on her forehead, but she took no notice of him; her thoughts were with her dead child; her whole existence seemed wrapped up in the remembrances of the little one and of every innocent word it had uttered.
The day of the little child's funeral came.
For nights previously the mother had not slept, but in the morning twilight of this day she sunk from weariness into a deep sleep; in the mean time the coffin was carried into a distant room, and there nailed down, that she might not hear the blows of the hammer.
When she awoke, and wanted to see her child, the husband, with tears, said, "We have closed the coffin; it was necessary to do so."
"When God is so hard to me, how can I expect men to be better?" she said with groans and tears.
The coffin was carried to the grave, and the disconsolate mother sat with her young daughters.
She looked at them, but she saw them not; for her thoughts were far away from the domestic hearth.
She gave herself up to her grief, and it tossed her to and fro, as the sea tosses a ship without compass or rudder.
So the day of the funeral passed away, and similar days followed, of dark, wearisome pain.
With tearful eyes and mournful glances, the sorrowing daughters and the afflicted husband looked upon her who would not hear their words of comfort; and, indeed, what comforting words could they speak, when they were themselves so full of grief?
It seemed as if she would never again know sleep, and yet it would have been her best friend, one who would have strengthened her body and poured peace into her soul.
They at last persuaded her to lie down, and then she would lie as still as if she slept.
One night, when her husband listened, as he often did, to her breathing, he quite believed that she had at length found rest and relief in sleep.
He folded his arms and prayed, and soon sunk himself into healthful sleep; therefore he did not notice that his wife arose, threw on her clothes, and glided silently from the house, to go where her thoughts constantly lingered- to the grave of her child.
She passed through the garden, to a path across a field that led to the churchyard.
No one saw her as she walked, nor did she see any one; for her eyes were fixed upon the one object of her wanderings.
It was a lovely starlight night in the beginning of September, and the air was mild and still.
She entered the churchyard, and stood by the little grave, which looked like a large nosegay of fragrant flowers.
She sat down, and bent her head low over the grave, as if she could see her child through the earth that covered him- her little boy, whose smile was so vividly before her, and the gentle expression of whose eyes, even on his sick-bed, she could not forget.
How full of meaning that glance had been, as she leaned over him, holding in hers the pale hand which he had no longer strength to raise!
As she had sat by his little cot, so now she sat by his grave; and here she could weep freely, and her tears fell upon it.
"Thou wouldst gladly go down and be with thy child," said a voice quite close to her,- a voice that sounded so deep and clear, that it went to her heart.
She looked up, and by her side stood a man wrapped in a black cloak, with a hood closely drawn over his face; but her keen glance could distinguish the face under the hood.
It was stern, yet awakened confidence, and the eyes beamed with youthful radiance.
"Down to my child," she repeated; and tones of despair and entreaty sounded in the words.
"Darest thou to follow me?" asked the form.
"I am Death."
She bowed her head in token of assent.
Then suddenly it appeared as if all the stars were shining with the radiance of the full moon on the many-colored flowers that decked the grave.
The earth that covered it was drawn back like a floating drapery.
She sunk down, and the spectre covered her with a black cloak; night closed around her, the night of death.
She sank deeper than the spade of the sexton could penetrate, till the churchyard became a roof above her.
Then the cloak was removed, and she found herself in a large hall, of wide-spreading dimensions, in which there was a subdued light, like twilight, reigning, and in a moment her child appeared before her, smiling, and more beautiful than ever; with a silent cry she pressed him to her heart.
A glorious strain of music sounded- now distant, now near.
Never had she listened to such tones as these; they came from beyond a large dark curtain which separated the regions of death from the land of eternity.
"My sweet, darling mother," she heard the child say.
It was the well-known, beloved voice; and kiss followed kiss, in boundless delight.
Then the child pointed to the dark curtain.
"There is nothing so beautiful on earth as it is here.
Mother, do you not see them all?
Oh, it is happiness indeed."
But the mother saw nothing of what the child pointed out, only the dark curtain.
She looked with earthly eyes, and could not see as the child saw,- he whom God has called to be with Himself.
She could hear the sounds of music, but she heard not the words, the Word in which she was to trust.
"I can fly now, mother," said the child; "I can fly with other happy children into the presence of the Almighty.
I would fain fly away now; but if you weep for me as you are weeping now, you may never see me again.
And yet I would go so gladly.
May I not fly away?
And you will come to me soon, will you not, dear mother?"
"Oh, stay, stay!" implored the mother; "only one moment more; only once more, that I may look upon thee, and kiss thee, and press thee to my heart."
Then she kissed and fondled her child.
Suddenly her name was called from above; what could it mean? her name uttered in a plaintive voice.
"Hearest thou?" said the child.
"It is my father who calls thee."
And in a few moments deep sighs were heard, as of children weeping.
"They are my sisters," said the child.
"Mother, surely you have not forgotten them."
And then she remembered those she left behind, and a great terror came over her.
She looked around her at the dark night.
Dim forms flitted by.
She seemed to recognize some of them, as they floated through the regions of death towards the dark curtain, where they vanished.
Would her husband and her daughters flit past?
No; their sighs and lamentations still sounded from above; and she had nearly forgotten them, for the sake of him who was dead.
"Mother, now the bells of heaven are ringing," said the child; "mother, the sun is going to rise."
An overpowering light streamed in upon her, the child had vanished, and she was being borne upwards.
All around her became cold; she lifted her head, and saw that she was lying in the churchyard, on the grave of her child.
The Lord, in a dream, had been a guide to her feet and a light to her spirit.
She bowed her knees, and prayed for forgiveness.
She had wished to keep back a soul from its immortal flight; she had forgotten her duties towards the living who were left her.
And when she had offered this prayer, her heart felt lighter.
The sun burst forth, over her head a little bird carolled his song, and the church-bells sounded for the early service.
Everything around her seemed holy, and her heart was chastened.
She acknowledged the goodness of God, she acknowledged the duties she had to perform, and eagerly she returned home.
She bent over her husband, who still slept; her warm, devoted kiss awakened him, and words of heartfelt love fell from the lips of both.
Now she was gentle and strong as a wife can be; and from her lips came the words of faith: "Whatever He doeth is right and best."
Then her husband asked, "From whence hast thou all at once derived such strength and comforting faith?"
And as she kissed him and her children, she said, "It came from God, through my child in the grave."
THERE were two cocks- one on the dung-hill, the other on the roof.
They were both arrogant, but which of the two rendered most service?
Tell us your opinion- we'll keep to ours just the same though.
The poultry yard was divided by some planks from another yard in which there was a dung-hill, and on the dung-hill lay and grew a large cucumber which was conscious of being a hot-bed plant.
"One is born to that," said the cucumber to itself.
"Not all can be born cucumbers; there must be other things, too.
The hens, the ducks, and all the animals in the next yard are creatures too.
Now I have a great opinion of the yard cock on the plank; he is certainly of much more importance than the weather-cock who is placed so high and can't even creak, much less crow.
The latter has neither hens nor chicks, and only thinks of himself and perspires verdigris.
No, the yard cock is really a cock!
His step is a dance!
His crowing is music, and wherever he goes one knows what a trumpeter is like!
If he would only come in here!
Even if he ate me up stump, stalk, and all, and I had to dissolve in his body, it would be a happy death," said the cucumber.
In the night there was a terrible storm.
The hens, chicks, and even the cock sought shelter; the wind tore down the planks between the two yards with a crash; the tiles came tumbling down, but the weather-cock sat firm.
He did not even turn round, for he could not; and yet he was young and freshly cast, but prudent and sedate.
He had been born old, and did not at all resemble the birds flying in the air- the sparrows, and the swallows; no, he despised them, these mean little piping birds, these common whistlers.
He admitted that the pigeons, large and white and shining like mother-o'-pearl, looked like a kind of weather-cock; but they were fat and stupid, and all their thoughts and endeavours were directed to filling themselves with food, and besides, they were tiresome things to converse with.
The birds of passage had also paid the weather-cock a visit and told him of foreign countries, of airy caravans and robber stories that made one's hair stand on end.
All this was new and interesting; that is, for the first time, but afterwards, as the weather-cock found out, they repeated themselves and always told the same stories, and that's very tedious, and there was no one with whom one could associate, for one and all were stale and small-minded.
"The world is no good!" he said.
"Everything in it is so stupid."
The weather-cock was puffed up, and that quality would have made him interesting in the eyes of the cucumber if it had known it, but it had eyes only for the yard cock, who was now in the yard with it.
The wind had blown the planks, but the storm was over.
"What do you think of that crowing?" said the yard cock to the hens and chickens.
"It was a little rough- it wanted elegance."
And the hens and chickens came up on the dung-hill, and the cock strutted about like a lord.
"Garden plant!" he said to the cucumber, and in that one word his deep learning showed itself, and it forgot that he was pecking at her and eating it up.
"A happy death!"
The hens and the chickens came, for where one runs the others run too; they clucked, and chirped, and looked at the cock, and were proud that he was of their kind.
"Cock-a-doodle-doo!" he crowed, "the chickens will grow up into great hens at once, if I cry it out in the poultry-yard of the world!"
And hens and chicks clucked and chirped, and the cock announced a great piece of news.
"A cock can lay an egg!
And do you know what's in that egg?
A basilisk.
No one can stand the sight of such a thing; people know that, and now you know it too- you know what is in me, and what a champion of all cocks I am!"
With that the yard cock flapped his wings, made his comb swell up, and crowed again; and they all shuddered, the hens and the little chicks- but they were very proud that one of their number was such a champion of all cocks.
They clucked and chirped till the weather-cock heard; he heard it; but he did not stir.
"Everything is very stupid," the weather-cock said to himself.
"The yard cock lays no eggs, and I am too lazy to do so; if I liked, I could lay a wind-egg.
But the world is not worth even a wind-egg.
Everything is so stupid!
I don't want to sit here any longer."
With that the weather-cock broke off; but he did not kill the yard cock, although the hens said that had been his intention.
And what is the moral?
"Better to crow than to be puffed up and break off!
Now listen!
In the country, close by the high road, stood a farmhouse; perhaps you have passed by and seen it yourself.
There was a little flower garden with painted wooden palings in front of it; close by was a ditch, on its fresh green bank grew a little daisy; the sun shone as warmly and brightly upon it as on the magnificent garden flowers, and therefore it thrived well.
One morning it had quite opened, and its little snow-white petals stood round the yellow centre, like the rays of the sun.
It did not mind that nobody saw it in the grass, and that it was a poor despised flower; on the contrary, it was quite happy, and turned towards the sun, looking upward and listening to the song of the lark high up in the air.
The little daisy was as happy as if the day had been a great holiday, but it was only Monday.
All the children were at school, and while they were sitting on the forms and learning their lessons, it sat on its thin green stalk and learnt from the sun and from its surroundings how kind God is, and it rejoiced that the song of the little lark expressed so sweetly and distinctly its own feelings.
With a sort of reverence the daisy looked up to the bird that could fly and sing, but it did not feel envious.
"I can see and hear," it thought; "the sun shines upon me, and the forest kisses me.
How rich I am!"
In the garden close by grew many large and magnificent flowers, and, strange to say, the less fragrance they had the haughtier and prouder they were.
The peonies puffed themselves up in order to be larger than the roses, but size is not everything!
The tulips had the finest colours, and they knew it well, too, for they were standing bolt upright like candles, that one might see them the better.
In their pride they did not see the little daisy, which looked over to them and thought, "How rich and beautiful they are!
I am sure the pretty bird will fly down and call upon them.
Thank God, that I stand so near and can at least see all the splendour."
And while the daisy was still thinking, the lark came flying down, crying "Tweet," but not to the peonies and tulips- no, into the grass to the poor daisy.
Its joy was so great that it did not know what to think.
The little bird hopped round it and sang, "How beautifully soft the grass is, and what a lovely little flower with its golden heart and silver dress is growing here."
The yellow centre in the daisy did indeed look like gold, while the little petals shone as brightly as silver.
How happy the daisy was!
No one has the least idea.
The bird kissed it with its beak, sang to it, and then rose again up to the blue sky.
It was certainly more than a quarter of an hour before the daisy recovered its senses.
Half ashamed, yet glad at heart, it looked over to the other flowers in the garden; surely they had witnessed its pleasure and the honour that had been done to it; they understood its joy.
But the tulips stood more stiffly than ever, their faces were pointed and red, because they were vexed.
The peonies were sulky; it was well that they could not speak, otherwise they would have given the daisy a good lecture.
The little flower could very well see that they were ill at ease, and pitied them sincerely.
Shortly after this a girl came into the garden, with a large sharp knife.
She went to the tulips and began cutting them off, one after another.
"Ugh!" sighed the daisy, "that is terrible; now they are done for."
The girl carried the tulips away.
The daisy was glad that it was outside, and only a small flower- it felt very grateful.
At sunset it folded its petals, and fell asleep, and dreamt all night of the sun and the little bird.
On the following morning, when the flower once more stretched forth its tender petals, like little arms, towards the air and light, the daisy recognised the bird's voice, but what it sang sounded so sad.
Indeed the poor bird had good reason to be sad, for it had been caught and put into a cage close by the open window.
It sang of the happy days when it could merrily fly about, of fresh green corn in the fields, and of the time when it could soar almost up to the clouds.
The poor lark was most unhappy as a prisoner in a cage.
The little daisy would have liked so much to help it, but what could be done?
Indeed, that was very difficult for such a small flower to find out.
It entirely forgot how beautiful everything around it was, how warmly the sun was shining, and how splendidly white its own petals were.
It could only think of the poor captive bird, for which it could do nothing.
Then two little boys came out of the garden; one of them had a large sharp knife, like that with which the girl had cut the tulips.
They came straight towards the little daisy, which could not understand what they wanted.
"Here is a fine piece of turf for the lark," said one of the boys, and began to cut out a square round the daisy, so that it remained in the centre of the grass.
"Pluck the flower off" said the other boy, and the daisy trembled for fear, for to be pulled off meant death to it; and it wished so much to live, as it was to go with the square of turf into the poor captive lark's cage.
"No let it stay," said the other boy, "it looks so pretty".
And so it stayed, and was brought into the lark's cage.
The poor bird was lamenting its lost liberty, and beating its wings against the wires; and the little daisy could not speak or utter a consoling word, much as it would have liked to do so.
So the forenoon passed.
"I have no water," said the captive lark, "they have all gone out, and forgotten to give me anything to drink.
My throat is dry and burning.
I feel as if I had fire and ice within me, and the air is so oppressive.
Alas!
I must die, and part with the warm sunshine, the fresh green meadows, and all the beauty that God has created."
And it thrust its beak into the piece of grass, to refresh itself a little.
Then it noticed the little daisy, and nodded to it, and kissed it with its beak and said: "You must also fade in here, poor little flower.
You and the piece of grass are all they have given me in exchange for the whole world, which I enjoyed outside.
Each little blade of grass shall be a green tree for me, each of your white petals a fragrant flower.
Alas! you only remind me of what I have lost."
"I wish I could console the poor lark," thought the daisy.
It could not move one of its leaves, but the fragrance of its delicate petals streamed forth, and was much stronger than such flowers usually have: the bird noticed it, although it was dying with thirst, and in its pain tore up the green blades of grass, but did not touch the flower.
The evening came, and nobody appeared to bring the poor bird a drop of water; it opened its beautiful wings, and fluttered about in its anguish; a faint and mournful "Tweet, tweet," was all it could utter, then it bent its little head towards the flower, and its heart broke for want and longing.
The flower could not, as on the previous evening, fold up its petals and sleep; it dropped sorrowfully.
The boys only came the next morning; when they saw the dead bird, they began to cry bitterly, dug a nice grave for it, and adorned it with flowers.
The bird's body was placed in a pretty red box; they wished to bury it with royal honours.
While it was alive and sang they forgot it, and let it suffer want in the cage; now, they cried over it and covered it with flowers.
The piece of turf, with the little daisy in it, was thrown out on the dusty highway.
Nobody thought of the flower which had felt so much for the bird and had so greatly desired to comfort it.
THERE was once a darning-needle who thought herself so fine that she fancied she must be fit for embroidery.
"Hold me tight," she would say to the fingers, when they took her up, "don't let me fall; if you do I shall never be found again, I am so very fine."
"That is your opinion, is it?" said the fingers, as they seized her round the body.
"See, I am coming with a train," said the darning-needle, drawing a long thread after her; but there was no knot in the thread.
The fingers then placed the point of the needle against the cook's slipper.
There was a crack in the upper leather, which had to be sewn together.
"What coarse work!" said the darning-needle, "I shall never get through.
I shall break!- I am breaking!" and sure enough she broke.
"Did I not say so?" said the darning-needle, "I know I am too fine for such work as that."
"This needle is quite useless for sewing now," said the fingers; but they still held it fast, and the cook dropped some sealing-wax on the needle, and fastened her handkerchief with it in front.
"So now I am a breast-pin," said the darning-needle; "I knew very well I should come to honor some day: merit is sure to rise;" and she laughed, quietly to herself, for of course no one ever saw a darning-needle laugh.
And there she sat as proudly as if she were in a state coach, and looked all around her.
"May I be allowed to ask if you are made of gold?" she inquired of her neighbor, a pin; "you have a very pretty appearance, and a curious head, although you are rather small.
You must take pains to grow, for it is not every one who has sealing-wax dropped upon him;" and as she spoke, the darning-needle drew herself up so proudly that she fell out of the handkerchief right into the sink, which the cook was cleaning.
"Now I am going on a journey," said the needle, as she floated away with the dirty water, "I do hope I shall not be lost."
But she really was lost in a gutter.
"I am too fine for this world," said the darning-needle, as she lay in the gutter; "but I know who I am, and that is always some comfort."
So the darning-needle kept up her proud behavior, and did not lose her good humor.
Then there floated over her all sorts of things,- chips and straws, and pieces of old newspaper.
"See how they sail," said the darning-needle; "they do not know what is under them.
I am here, and here I shall stick.
See, there goes a chip, thinking of nothing in the world but himself- only a chip.
There's a straw going by now; how he turns and twists about!
Don't be thinking too much of yourself, or you may chance to run against a stone.
There swims a piece of newspaper; what is written upon it has been forgotten long ago, and yet it gives itself airs.
I sit here patiently and quietly.
I know who I am, so I shall not move."
One day something lying close to the darning-needle glittered so splendidly that she thought it was a diamond; yet it was only a piece of broken bottle.
The darning-needle spoke to it, because it sparkled, and represented herself as a breast-pin.
"I suppose you are really a diamond?" she said.
"Why yes, something of the kind," he replied; and so each believed the other to be very valuable, and then they began to talk about the world, and the conceited people in it.
"I have been in a lady's work-box," said the darning-needle, "and this lady was the cook.
She had on each hand five fingers, and anything so conceited as these five fingers I have never seen; and yet they were only employed to take me out of the box and to put me back again."
"Were they not high-born?"
"High-born!" said the darning-needle, "no indeed, but so haughty.
They were five brothers, all born fingers; they kept very proudly together, though they were of different lengths.
The one who stood first in the rank was named the thumb, he was short and thick, and had only one joint in his back, and could therefore make but one bow; but he said that if he were cut off from a man's hand, that man would be unfit for a soldier.
Sweet-tooth, his neighbor, dipped himself into sweet or sour, pointed to the sun and moon, and formed the letters when the fingers wrote.
Longman, the middle finger, looked over the heads of all the others.
Gold-band, the next finger, wore a golden circle round his waist.
And little Playman did nothing at all, and seemed proud of it.
They were boasters, and boasters they will remain; and therefore I left them."
"And now we sit here and glitter," said the piece of broken bottle.
At the same moment more water streamed into the gutter, so that it overflowed, and the piece of bottle was carried away.
"So he is promoted," said the darning-needle, "while I remain here; I am too fine, but that is my pride, and what do I care?"
And so she sat there in her pride, and had many such thoughts as these,- "I could almost fancy that I came from a sunbeam, I am so fine.
It seems as if the sunbeams were always looking for me under the water.
Ah!
I am so fine that even my mother cannot find me.
Had I still my old eye, which was broken off, I believe I should weep; but no, I would not do that, it is not genteel to cry."
One day a couple of street boys were paddling in the gutter, for they sometimes found old nails, farthings, and other treasures.
It was dirty work, but they took great pleasure in it.
"Hallo!" cried one, as he pricked himself with the darning-needle, "here's a fellow for you."
"I am not a fellow, I am a young lady," said the darning-needle; but no one heard her.
The sealing-wax had come off, and she was quite black; but black makes a person look slender, so she thought herself even finer than before.
"Here comes an egg-shell sailing along," said one of the boys; so they stuck the darning-needle into the egg-shell.
"White walls, and I am black myself," said the darning-needle, "that looks well; now I can be seen, but I hope I shall not be sea-sick, or I shall break again."
She was not sea-sick, and she did not break.
"It is a good thing against sea-sickness to have a steel stomach, and not to forget one's own importance.
Now my sea-sickness has past: delicate people can bear a great deal."
Crack went the egg-shell, as a waggon passed over it.
"Good heavens, how it crushes!" said the darning-needle.
"I shall be sick now.
I am breaking!" but she did not break, though the waggon went over her as she lay at full length; and there let her lie.
THERE was an old mansion surrounded by a marshy ditch with a drawbridge which was but seldom let down:- not all guests are good people.
Under the roof were loopholes to shoot through, and to pour down boiling water or even molten lead on the enemy, should he approach.
Inside the house the rooms were very high and had ceilings of beams, and that was very useful considering the great deal of smoke which rose up from the chimney fire where the large, damp logs of wood smouldered.
On the walls hung pictures of knights in armour and proud ladies in gorgeous dresses; the most stately of all walked about alive.
She was called Meta Mogen; she was the mistress of the house, to her belonged the castle.
Towards the evening robbers came; they killed three of her people and also the yard-dog, and attached Mrs. Meta to the kennel by the chain, while they themselves made good cheer in the hall and drank the wine and the good ale out of her cellar.
Mrs. Meta was now on the chain, she could not even bark.
But lo! the servant of one of the robbers secretly approached her; they must not see it, otherwise they would have killed him.
"Mrs. Meta Mogen," said the fellow, "do you still remember how my father, when your husband was still alive, had to ride on the wooden horse?
You prayed for him, but it was no good, he was to ride until his limbs were paralysed; but you stole down to him, as I steal now to you, you yourself put little stones under each of his feet that he might have support, nobody saw it, or they pretended not to see it, for you were then the young gracious mistress.
My father has told me this, and I have not forgotten it!
Now I will free you, Mrs. Meta Mogen!"
Then they pulled the horses out of the stable and rode off in rain and wind to obtain the assistance of friends.
"Thus the small service done to the old man was richly rewarded!" said Meta Mogen.
"Delaying is not forgetting," said the fellow.
The robbers were hanged.
There was an old mansion, it is still there; it did not belong to Mrs. Meta Mogen, it belonged to another old noble family.
We are now in the present time.
The sun is shining on the gilt knob of the tower, little wooded islands lie like bouquets on the water, and wild swans are swimming round them.
In the garden grow roses; the mistress of the house is herself the finest rose petal, she beams with joy, the joy of good deeds: however, not done in the wide world, but in her heart, and what is preserved there is not forgotten.
Delaying is not forgetting!
Now she goes from the mansion to a little peasant hut in the field.
Therein lives a poor paralysed girl; the window of her little room looks northward, the sun does not enter here.
The girl can only see a small piece of field which is surrounded by a high fence.
But to-day the sun shines here- the warm, beautiful sun of God is within the little room; it comes from the south through the new window, where formerly the wall was.
The paralysed girl sits in the warm sunshine and can see the wood and the lake; the world had become so large, so beautiful, and only through a single word from the kind mistress of the mansion.
"The word was so easy, the deed so small," she said, "the joy it afforded me was infinitely great and sweet!"
And therefore she does many a good deed, thinks of all in the humble cottages and in the rich mansions, where there are also afflicted ones.
It is concealed and hidden, but God does not forget it.
Delayed is not forgotten!
An old house stood there; it was in the large town with its busy traffic.
There are rooms and halls in it, but we do not enter them, we remain in the kitchen, where it is warm and light, clean and tidy; the copper utensils are shining, the table as if polished with beeswax; the sink looks like a freshly scoured meatboard.
All this a single servant has done, and yet she has time to spare as if she wished to go to church; she wears a bow on her cap, a black bow, that signifies mourning.
But she has no one to mourn, neither father nor mother, neither relations nor sweetheart.
She is a poor girl.
One day she was engaged to a poor fellow; they loved each other dearly.
One day he came to her and said: "We both have nothing!
The rich widow over the way in the basement has made advances to me; she will make me rich, but you are in my heart; what do you advise me to do?"
"I advise you to do what you think will turn out to your happiness," said the girl.
"Be kind and good to her, but remember this; from the hour we part we shall never see each other again."
Years passed; then one day she met the old friend and sweetheart in the street; he looked ill and miserable, and she could not help asking him, "How are you?"
"Rich and prospering in every respect," he said; "the woman is brave and good, but you are in my heart.
I have fought the battle, it will soon be ended; we shall not see each other again now until we meet before God!"
A week has passed; this morning his death was in the newspaper, that is the reason of the girl's mourning!
Her old sweetheart is dead and has left a wife and three step-children, as the paper says; it sounds as if there is a crack, but the metal is pure.
The black bow signifies mourning, the girl's face points to the same in a still higher degree; it is preserved in the heart and will never be forgotten.
Delaying is not forgetting!
These are three stories you see, three leaves on the same stalk.
Do you wish for some more trefoil leaves?
In the little heartbook are many more of them.
Delaying is not forgetting!
OF course you know what is meant by a magnifying glass- one of those round spectacle-glasses that make everything look a hundred times bigger than it is?
When any one takes one of these and holds it to his eye, and looks at a drop of water from the pond yonder, he sees above a thousand wonderful creatures that are otherwise never discerned in the water.
But there they are, and it is no delusion.
It almost looks like a great plateful of spiders jumping about in a crowd.
And how fierce they are!
They tear off each other's legs. and arms and bodies, before and behind; and yet they are merry and joyful in their way.
Now, there once was an old man whom all the people called Kribble-Krabble, for that was his name.
He always wanted the best of everything, and when he could not manage it otherwise, he did it by magic.
There he sat one day, and held his magnifying-glass to his eye, and looked at a drop of water that had been taken out of a puddle by the ditch.
But what a kribbling and krabbling was there!
All the thousands of little creatures hopped and sprang and tugged at one another, and ate each other up.
"That is horrible!" said old Kribble-Krabble.
"Can one not persuade them to live in peace and quietness, so that each one may mind his own business?"
And he thought it over and over, but it would not do, and so he had recourse to magic.
"I must give them color, that they may be seen more plainly," said he; and he poured something like a little drop of red wine into the drop of water, but it was witches' blood from the lobes of the ear, the finest kind, at ninepence a drop.
And now the wonderful little creatures were pink all over.
It looked like a whole town of naked wild men.
"What have you there?" asked another old magician, who had no name- and that was the best thing about him.
"Yes, if you can guess what it is," said Kribble-Krabble, "I'll make you a present of it."
But it is not so easy to find out if one does not know.
And the magician who had no name looked through the magnifying-glass.
It looked really like a great town reflected there, in which all the people were running about without clothes.
It was terrible!
But it was still more terrible to see how one beat and pushed the other, and bit and hacked, and tugged and mauled him.
Those at the top were being pulled down, and those at the bottom were struggling upwards.
"Look! look! his leg is longer than mine!
Bah!
Away with it!
There is one who has a little bruise.
It hurts him, but it shall hurt him still more."
And they hacked away at him, and they pulled at him, and ate him up, because of the little bruise.
And there was one sitting as still as any little maiden, and wishing only for peace and quietness.
But now she had to come out, and they tugged at her, and pulled her about, and ate her up.
"That's funny!" said the magician.
"Yes; but what do you think it is?" said Kribble-Krabble.
"Can you find that out?"
"Why, one can see that easily enough," said the other.
"That's Paris, or some other great city, for they're all alike.
It's a great city!"
"It's a drop of puddle water!" said Kribble-Krabble.
FAR in the interior of the country lay an old baronial hall, and in it lived an old proprietor, who had two sons, which two young men thought themselves too clever by half.
They wanted to go out and woo the King's daughter; for the maiden in question had publicly announced that she would choose for her husband that youth who could arrange his words best.
So these two geniuses prepared themselves a full week for the wooing- this was the longest time that could be granted them; but it was enough, for they had had much preparatory information, and everybody knows how useful that is.
One of them knew the whole Latin dictionary by heart, and three whole years of the daily paper of the little town into the bargain, and so well, indeed, that he could repeat it all either backwards or forwards, just as he chose.
The other was deeply read in the corporation laws, and knew by heart what every corporation ought to know; and accordingly he thought he could talk of affairs of state, and put his spoke in the wheel in the council.
And he knew one thing more: he could embroider suspenders with roses and other flowers, and with arabesques, for he was a tasty, light-fingered fellow.
"I shall win the Princess!"
So cried both of them.
Therefore their old papa gave to each of them a handsome horse.
The youth who knew the dictionary and newspaper by heart had a black horse, and he who knew all about the corporation laws received a milk-white steed.
Then they rubbed the corners of their mouths with fish-oil, so that they might become very smooth and glib.
All the servants stood below in the courtyard, and looked on while they mounted their horses; and just by chance the third son came up.
For the proprietor had really three sons, though nobody counted the third with his brothers, because he was not so learned as they, and indeed he was generally known as "Jack the Dullard."
"Hallo!" said Jack the Dullard, "where are you going?
I declare you have put on your Sunday clothes!"
"We're going to the King's court, as suitors to the King's daughter.
Don't you know the announcement that has been made all through the country?"
And they told him all about it.
"My word!
I'll be in it too!" cried Jack the Dullard; and his two brothers burst out laughing at him, and rode away.
"Father, dear," said Jack, "I must have a horse too.
I do feel so desperately inclined to marry!
If she accepts me, she accepts me; and if she won't have me, I'll have her; but she shall be mine!"
"Don't talk nonsense," replied the old gentleman.
"You shall have no horse from me.
You don't know how to speak- you can't arrange your words.
Your brothers are very different fellows from you."
"Well," quoth Jack the Dullard, "If I can't have a horse, I'll take the Billy-goat, who belongs to me, and he can carry me very well!"
And so said, so done.
He mounted the Billy-goat, pressed his heels into its sides, and galloped down the high street like a hurricane.
"Hei, houp! that was a ride!
Here I come!" shouted Jack the Dullard, and he sang till his voice echoed far and wide.
But his brothers rode slowly on in advance of him.
They spoke not a word, for they were thinking about the fine extempore speeches they would have to bring out, and these had to be cleverly prepared beforehand.
"Hallo!" shouted Jack the Dullard.
"Here am I!
Look what I have found on the high road."
And he showed them what it was, and it was a dead crow.
"Dullard!" exclaimed the brothers, "what are you going to do with that?"
"With the crow? why, I am going to give it to the Princess."
"Yes, do so," said they; and they laughed, and rode on.
"Hallo, here I am again! just see what I have found now: you don't find that on the high road every day!"
And the brothers turned round to see what he could have found now.
"Dullard!" they cried, "that is only an old wooden shoe, and the upper part is missing into the bargain; are you going to give that also to the Princess?"
"Most certainly I shall," replied Jack the Dullard; and again the brothers laughed and rode on, and thus they got far in advance of him; but- "Hallo- hop rara!" and there was Jack the Dullard again.
"It is getting better and better," he cried.
"Hurrah! it is quite famous."
"Why, what have you found this time?" inquired the brothers.
"Oh," said Jack the Dullard, "I can hardly tell you.
How glad the Princess will be!"
"Bah!" said the brothers; "that is nothing but clay out of the ditch."
"Yes, certainly it is," said Jack the Dullard; "and clay of the finest sort.
See, it is so wet, it runs through one's fingers."
And he filled his pocket with the clay.
But his brothers galloped on till the sparks flew, and consequently they arrived a full hour earlier at the town gate than could Jack.
Now at the gate each suitor was provided with a number, and all were placed in rows immediately on their arrival, six in each row, and so closely packed together that they could not move their arms; and that was a prudent arrangement, for they would certainly have come to blows, had they been able, merely because one of them stood before the other.
All the inhabitants of the country round about stood in great crowds around the castle, almost under the very windows, to see the Princess receive the suitors; and as each stepped into the hall, his power of speech seemed to desert him, like the light of a candle that is blown out.
Then the Princess would say, "He is of no use!
Away with him out of the hall!"
At last the turn came for that brother who knew the dictionary by heart; but he did not know it now; he had absolutely forgotten it altogether; and the boards seemed to re-echo with his footsteps, and the ceiling of the hall was made of looking-glass, so that he saw himself standing on his head; and at the window stood three clerks and a head clerk, and every one of them was writing down every single word that was uttered, so that it might be printed in the newspapers, and sold for a penny at the street corners.
It was a terrible ordeal, and they had, moreover, made such a fire in the stove, that the room seemed quite red hot.
"It is dreadfully hot here!" observed the first brother.
"Yes," replied the Princess, "my father is going to roast young pullets today."
"Baa!" there he stood like a baa-lamb.
He had not been prepared for a speech of this kind, and had not a word to say, though he intended to say something witty.
"Baa!"
"He is of no use!" said the Princess.
"Away with him!"
And he was obliged to go accordingly.
And now the second brother came in.
"It is terribly warm here!" he observed.
"Yes, we're roasting pullets to-day," replied the Princess.
"What- what were you- were you pleased to ob-" stammered he- and all the clerks wrote down, "pleased to ob-" "He is of no use!" said the Princess.
"Away with him!"
Now came the turn of Jack the Dullard.
He rode into the hall on his goat.
"Well, it's most abominably hot here."
"Yes, because I'm roasting young pullets," replied the Princess.
"Ah, that's lucky!" exclaimed Jack the Dullard, "for I suppose you'll let me roast my crow at the same time?"
"With the greatest pleasure," said the Princess.
"But have you anything you can roast it in? for I have neither pot nor pan."
"Certainly I have!" said Jack.
"Here's a cooking utensil with a tin handle."
And he brought out the old wooden shoe, and put the crow into it.
"Well, that is a famous dish!" said the Princess.
"But what shall we do for sauce?"
"Oh, I have that in my pocket," said Jack; "I have so much of it that I can afford to throw some away;" and he poured some of the clay out of his pocket.
"I like that!" said the Princess.
"You can give an answer, and you have something to say for yourself, and so you shall be my husband.
But are you aware that every word we speak is being taken down, and will be published in the paper to-morrow?
Look yonder, and you will see in every window three clerks and a head clerk; and the old head clerk is the worst of all, for he can't understand anything."
But she only said this to frighten Jack the Dullard; and the clerks gave a great crow of delight, and each one spurted a blot out of his pen on to the floor.
"Oh, those are the gentlemen, are they?" said Jack; "then I will give the best I have to the head clerk."
And he turned out his pockets, and flung the wet clay full in the head clerk's face.
"That was very cleverly done," observed the Princess.
"I could not have done that; but I shall learn in time."
And accordingly Jack the Dullard was made a king, and received a crown and a wife, and sat upon a throne.
And this report we have wet from the press of the head clerk and the corporation of printers- but they are not to be depended upon in the least.
IN the high-road which led through a wood stood a solitary farm-house; the road, in fact, ran right through its yard.
The sun was shining and all the windows were open; within the house people were very busy.
In the yard, in an arbour formed by lilac bushes in full bloom, stood an open coffin; thither they had carried a dead man, who was to be buried that very afternoon.
Nobody shed a tear over him; his face was covered over with a white cloth, under his head they had placed a large thick book, the leaves of which consisted of folded sheets of blotting-paper, and withered flowers lay between them; it was the herbarium which he had gathered in various places and was to be buried with him, according to his own wish.
Every one of the flowers in it was connected with some chapter of his life.
"Who is the dead man?" we asked.
"The old student," was the reply.
"They say that he was once an energetic young man, that he studied the dead languages, and sang and even composed many songs; then something had happened to him, and in consequence of this he gave himself up to drink, body and mind.
When at last he had ruined his health, they brought him into the country, where someone paid for his board and residence.
He was gentle as a child as long as the sullen mood did not come over him; but when it came he was fierce, became as strong as a giant, and ran about in the wood like a chased deer.
But when we succeeded in bringing him home, and prevailed upon him to open the book with the dried-up plants in it, he would sometimes sit for a whole day looking at this or that plant, while frequently the tears rolled over his cheeks.
God knows what was in his mind; but he requested us to put the book into his coffin, and now he lies there.
In a little while the lid will be placed upon the coffin, and he will have sweet rest in the grave!"
The cloth which covered his face was lifted up; the dead man's face expressed peace- a sunbeam fell upon it.
A swallow flew with the swiftness of an arrow into the arbour, turning in its flight, and twittered over the dead man's head.
What a strange feeling it is- surely we all know it- to look through old letters of our young days; a different life rises up out of the past, as it were, with all its hopes and sorrows.
How many of the people with whom in those days we used to be on intimate terms appear to us as if dead, and yet they are still alive- only we have not thought of them for such a long time, whom we imagined we should retain in our memories for ever, and share every joy and sorrow with them.
The withered oak leaf in the book here recalled the friend, the schoolfellow, who was to be his friend for life.
He fixed the leaf to the student's cap in the green wood, when they vowed eternal friendship.
Where does he dwell now?
The leaf is kept, but the friendship does no longer exist.
Here is a foreign hothouse plant, too tender for the gardens of the North.
It is almost as if its leaves still smelt sweet!
She gave it to him out of her own garden- a nobleman's daughter.
Here is a water-lily that he had plucked himself, and watered with salt tears- a lily of sweet water.
And here is a nettle: what may its leaves tell us?
What might he have thought when he plucked and kept it?
Here is a little snowdrop out of the solitary wood; here is an evergreen from the flower-pot at the tavern; and here is a simple blade of grass.
The lilac bends its fresh fragrant flowers over the dead man's head; the swallow passes again- "twit, twit;" now the men come with hammer and nails, the lid is placed over the dead man, while his head rests on the dumb book- so long cherished, now closed for ever!
IN the midst of a garden grew a rose-tree, in full blossom, and in the prettiest of all the roses lived an elf.
He was such a little wee thing, that no human eye could see him.
Behind each leaf of the rose he had a sleeping chamber.
He was as well formed and as beautiful as a little child could be, and had wings that reached from his shoulders to his feet.
Oh, what sweet fragrance there was in his chambers! and how clean and beautiful were the walls! for they were the blushing leaves of the rose.
During the whole day he enjoyed himself in the warm sunshine, flew from flower to flower, and danced on the wings of the flying butterflies.
Then he took it into his head to measure how many steps he would have to go through the roads and cross-roads that are on the leaf of a linden-tree.
What we call the veins on a leaf, he took for roads; ay, and very long roads they were for him; for before he had half finished his task, the sun went down: he had commenced his work too late.
It became very cold, the dew fell, and the wind blew; so he thought the best thing he could do would be to return home.
He hurried himself as much as he could; but he found the roses all closed up, and he could not get in; not a single rose stood open.
The poor little elf was very much frightened.
He had never before been out at night, but had always slumbered secretly behind the warm rose-leaves.
Oh, this would certainly be his death.
At the other end of the garden, he knew there was an arbor, overgrown with beautiful honey-suckles.
The blossoms looked like large painted horns; and he thought to himself, he would go and sleep in one of these till the morning.
He flew thither; but "hush!" two people were in the arbor,- a handsome young man and a beautiful lady.
They sat side by side, and wished that they might never be obliged to part.
They loved each other much more than the best child can love its father and mother.
"But we must part," said the young man; "your brother does not like our engagement, and therefore he sends me so far away on business, over mountains and seas.
Farewell, my sweet bride; for so you are to me."
And then they kissed each other, and the girl wept, and gave him a rose; but before she did so, she pressed a kiss upon it so fervently that the flower opened.
Then the little elf flew in, and leaned his head on the delicate, fragrant walls.
Here he could plainly hear them say, "Farewell, farewell;" and he felt that the rose had been placed on the young man's breast.
Oh, how his heart did beat!
The little elf could not go to sleep, it thumped so loudly.
The young man took it out as he walked through the dark wood alone, and kissed the flower so often and so violently, that the little elf was almost crushed.
He could feel through the leaf how hot the lips of the young man were, and the rose had opened, as if from the heat of the noonday sun.
There came another man, who looked gloomy and wicked.
He was the wicked brother of the beautiful maiden.
He drew out a sharp knife, and while the other was kissing the rose, the wicked man stabbed him to death; then he cut off his head, and buried it with the body in the soft earth under the linden-tree.
"Now he is gone, and will soon be forgotten," thought the wicked brother; "he will never come back again.
He was going on a long journey over mountains and seas; it is easy for a man to lose his life in such a journey.
My sister will suppose he is dead; for he cannot come back, and she will not dare to question me about him."
Then he scattered the dry leaves over the light earth with his foot, and went home through the darkness; but he went not alone, as he thought,- the little elf accompanied him.
He sat in a dry rolled-up linden-leaf, which had fallen from the tree on to the wicked man's head, as he was digging the grave.
The hat was on the head now, which made it very dark, and the little elf shuddered with fright and indignation at the wicked deed.
It was the dawn of morning before the wicked man reached home; he took off his hat, and went into his sister's room.
There lay the beautiful, blooming girl, dreaming of him whom she loved so, and who was now, she supposed, travelling far away over mountain and sea.
Her wicked brother stopped over her, and laughed hideously, as fiends only can laugh.
The dry leaf fell out of his hair upon the counterpane; but he did not notice it, and went to get a little sleep during the early morning hours.
But the elf slipped out of the withered leaf, placed himself by the ear of the sleeping girl, and told her, as in a dream, of the horrid murder; described the place where her brother had slain her lover, and buried his body; and told her of the linden-tree, in full blossom, that stood close by.
"That you may not think this is only a dream that I have told you," he said, "you will find on your bed a withered leaf."
Then she awoke, and found it there.
Oh, what bitter tears she shed! and she could not open her heart to any one for relief.
The window stood open the whole day, and the little elf could easily have reached the roses, or any of the flowers; but he could not find it in his heart to leave one so afflicted.
In the window stood a bush bearing monthly roses.
He seated himself in one of the flowers, and gazed on the poor girl.
Her brother often came into the room, and would be quite cheerful, in spite of his base conduct; so she dare not say a word to him of her heart's grief.
As soon as night came on, she slipped out of the house, and went into the wood, to the spot where the linden-tree stood; and after removing the leaves from the earth, she turned it up, and there found him who had been murdered.
Oh, how she wept and prayed that she also might die!
Gladly would she have taken the body home with her; but that was impossible; so she took up the poor head with the closed eyes, kissed the cold lips, and shook the mould out of the beautiful hair.
"I will keep this," said she; and as soon as she had covered the body again with the earth and leaves, she took the head and a little sprig of jasmine that bloomed in the wood, near the spot where he was buried, and carried them home with her.
As soon as she was in her room, she took the largest flower-pot she could find, and in this she placed the head of the dead man, covered it up with earth, and planted the twig of jasmine in it.
"Farewell, farewell," whispered the little elf.
He could not any longer endure to witness all this agony of grief, he therefore flew away to his own rose in the garden.
But the rose was faded; only a few dry leaves still clung to the green hedge behind it.
"Alas! how soon all that is good and beautiful passes away," sighed the elf.
After a while he found another rose, which became his home, for among its delicate fragrant leaves he could dwell in safety.
Every morning he flew to the window of the poor girl, and always found her weeping by the flower pot.
The bitter tears fell upon the jasmine twig, and each day, as she became paler and paler, the sprig appeared to grow greener and fresher.
One shoot after another sprouted forth, and little white buds blossomed, which the poor girl fondly kissed.
But her wicked brother scolded her, and asked her if she was going mad.
He could not imagine why she was weeping over that flower-pot, and it annoyed him.
He did not know whose closed eyes were there, nor what red lips were fading beneath the earth.
And one day she sat and leaned her head against the flower-pot, and the little elf of the rose found her asleep.
Then he seated himself by her ear, talked to her of that evening in the arbor, of the sweet perfume of the rose, and the loves of the elves.
Sweetly she dreamed, and while she dreamt, her life passed away calmly and gently, and her spirit was with him whom she loved, in heaven.
And the jasmine opened its large white bells, and spread forth its sweet fragrance; it had no other way of showing its grief for the dead.
But the wicked brother considered the beautiful blooming plant as his own property, left to him by his sister, and he placed it in his sleeping room, close by his bed, for it was very lovely in appearance, and the fragrance sweet and delightful.
The little elf of the rose followed it, and flew from flower to flower, telling each little spirit that dwelt in them the story of the murdered young man, whose head now formed part of the earth beneath them, and of the wicked brother and the poor sister.
"We know it," said each little spirit in the flowers, "we know it, for have we not sprung from the eyes and lips of the murdered one.
We know it, we know it," and the flowers nodded with their heads in a peculiar manner.
The elf of the rose could not understand how they could rest so quietly in the matter, so he flew to the bees, who were gathering honey, and told them of the wicked brother.
And the bees told it to their queen, who commanded that the next morning they should go and kill the murderer.
But during the night, the first after the sister's death, while the brother was sleeping in his bed, close to where he had placed the fragrant jasmine, every flower cup opened, and invisibly the little spirits stole out, armed with poisonous spears.
They placed themselves by the ear of the sleeper, told him dreadful dreams and then flew across his lips, and pricked his tongue with their poisoned spears.
"Now have we revenged the dead," said they, and flew back into the white bells of the jasmine flowers.
When the morning came, and as soon as the window was opened, the rose elf, with the queen bee, and the whole swarm of bees, rushed in to kill him.
But he was already dead.
People were standing round the bed, and saying that the scent of the jasmine had killed him.
Then the elf of the rose understood the revenge of the flowers, and explained it to the queen bee, and she, with the whole swarm, buzzed about the flower-pot.
The bees could not be driven away.
Then a man took it up to remove it, and one of the bees stung him in the hand, so that he let the flower-pot fall, and it was broken to pieces.
Then every one saw the whitened skull, and they knew the dead man in the bed was a murderer.
And the queen bee hummed in the air, and sang of the revenge of the flowers, and of the elf of the rose and said that behind the smallest leaf dwells One, who can discover evil deeds, and punish them also.
A FEW large lizards were running nimbly about in the clefts of an old tree; they could understand one another very well, for they spoke the lizard language.
"What a buzzing and a rumbling there is in the elfin hill," said one of the lizards; "I have not been able to close my eyes for two nights on account of the noise; I might just as well have had the toothache, for that always keeps me awake."
"There is something going on within there," said the other lizard; "they propped up the top of the hill with four red posts, till cock-crow this morning, so that it is thoroughly aired, and the elfin girls have learnt new dances; there is something."
"I spoke about it to an earth-worm of my acquaintance," said a third lizard; "the earth-worm had just come from the elfin hill, where he has been groping about in the earth day and night.
He has heard a great deal; although he cannot see, poor miserable creature, yet he understands very well how to wriggle and lurk about.
They expect friends in the elfin hill, grand company, too; but who they are the earth-worm would not say, or, perhaps, he really did not know.
All the will-o'-the-wisps are ordered to be there to hold a torch dance, as it is called.
The silver and gold which is plentiful in the hill will be polished and placed out in the moonlight."
"Who can the strangers be?" asked the lizards; "what can the matter be?
Hark, what a buzzing and humming there is!"
Just at this moment the elfin hill opened, and an old elfin maiden, hollow behind, came tripping out; she was the old elf king's housekeeper, and a distant relative of the family; therefore she wore an amber heart on the middle of her forehead.
Her feet moved very fast, "trip, trip;" good gracious, how she could trip right down to the sea to the night-raven.
"You are invited to the elf hill for this evening," said she; "but will you do me a great favor and undertake the invitations? you ought to do something, for you have no housekeeping to attend to as I have.
We are going to have some very grand people, conjurors, who have always something to say; and therefore the old elf king wishes to make a great display."
"Who is to be invited?" asked the raven.
"All the world may come to the great ball, even human beings, if they can only talk in their sleep, or do something after our fashion.
But for the feast the company must be carefully selected; we can only admit persons of high rank; I have had a dispute myself with the elf king, as he thought we could not admit ghosts.
The merman and his daughter must be invited first, although it may not be agreeable to them to remain so long on dry land, but they shall have a wet stone to sit on, or perhaps something better; so I think they will not refuse this time.
We must have all the old demons of the first class, with tails, and the hobgoblins and imps; and then I think we ought not to leave out the death-horse, or the grave-pig, or even the church dwarf, although they do belong to the clergy, and are not reckoned among our people; but that is merely their office, they are nearly related to us, and visit us very frequently."
"Croak," said the night-raven as he flew away with the invitations.
The elfin maidens we're already dancing on the elf hill, and they danced in shawls woven from moonshine and mist, which look very pretty to those who like such things.
The large hall within the elf hill was splendidly decorated; the floor had been washed with moonshine, and the walls had been rubbed with magic ointment, so that they glowed like tulip-leaves in the light.
In the kitchen were frogs roasting on the spit, and dishes preparing of snail skins, with children's fingers in them, salad of mushroom seed, hemlock, noses and marrow of mice, beer from the marsh woman's brewery, and sparkling salt-petre wine from the grave cellars.
These were all substantial food.
Rusty nails and church-window glass formed the dessert.
The old elf king had his gold crown polished up with powdered slate-pencil; it was like that used by the first form, and very difficult for an elf king to obtain.
In the bedrooms, curtains were hung up and fastened with the slime of snails; there was, indeed, a buzzing and humming everywhere.
"Now we must fumigate the place with burnt horse-hair and pig's bristles, and then I think I shall have done my part," said the elf man-servant.
"Father, dear," said the youngest daughter, "may I now hear who our high-born visitors are?"
"Well, I suppose I must tell you now," he replied; "two of my daughters must prepare themselves to be married, for the marriages certainly will take place.
The old goblin from Norway, who lives in the ancient Dovre mountains, and who possesses many castles built of rock and freestone, besides a gold mine, which is better than all, so it is thought, is coming with his two sons, who are both seeking a wife.
The old goblin is a true-hearted, honest, old Norwegian graybeard; cheerful and straightforward.
I knew him formerly, when we used to drink together to our good fellowship: he came here once to fetch his wife, she is dead now.
She was the daughter of the king of the chalk-hills at Moen.
They say he took his wife from chalk; I shall be delighted to see him again.
It is said that the boys are ill-bred, forward lads, but perhaps that is not quite correct, and they will become better as they grow older.
Let me see that you know how to teach them good manners."
"And when are they coming?" asked the daughter.
"That depends upon wind and weather," said the elf king; "they travel economically.
They will come when there is the chance of a ship.
I wanted them to come over to Sweden, but the old man was not inclined to take my advice.
He does not go forward with the times, and that I do not like."
Two will-o'-the-wisps came jumping in, one quicker than the other, so of course, one arrived first.
"They are coming! they are coming!" he cried.
"Give me my crown," said the elf king, "and let me stand in the moonshine."
The daughters drew on their shawls and bowed down to the ground.
There stood the old goblin from the Dovre mountains, with his crown of hardened ice and polished fir-cones.
Besides this, he wore a bear-skin, and great, warm boots, while his sons went with their throats bare and wore no braces, for they were strong men.
"Is that a hill?" said the youngest of the boys, pointing to the elf hill, "we should call it a hole in Norway."
"Boys," said the old man, "a hole goes in, and a hill stands out; have you no eyes in your heads?"
Another thing they wondered at was, that they were able without trouble to understand the language.
"Take care," said the old man, "or people will think you have not been well brought up."
Then they entered the elfin hill, where the select and grand company were assembled, and so quickly had they appeared that they seemed to have been blown together.
But for each guest the neatest and pleasantest arrangement had been made.
The sea folks sat at table in great water-tubs, and they said it was just like being at home.
All behaved themselves properly excepting the two young northern goblins; they put their legs on the table and thought they were all right.
"Feet off the table-cloth!" said the old goblin.
They obeyed, but not immediately.
Then they tickled the ladies who waited at table, with the fir-cones, which they carried in their pockets.
They took off their boots, that they might be more at ease, and gave them to the ladies to hold.
But their father, the old goblin, was very different; he talked pleasantly about the stately Norwegian rocks, and told fine tales of the waterfalls which dashed over them with a clattering noise like thunder or the sound of an organ, spreading their white foam on every side.
He told of the salmon that leaps in the rushing waters, while the water-god plays on his golden harp.
He spoke of the bright winter nights, when the sledge bells are ringing, and the boys run with burning torches across the smooth ice, which is so transparent that they can see the fishes dart forward beneath their feet.
He described everything so clearly, that those who listened could see it all; they could see the saw-mills going, the men-servants and the maidens singing songs, and dancing a rattling dance,- when all at once the old goblin gave the old elfin maiden a kiss, such a tremendous kiss, and yet they were almost strangers to each other.
Then the elfin girls had to dance, first in the usual way, and then with stamping feet, which they performed very well; then followed the artistic and solo dance.
Dear me, how they did throw their legs about!
No one could tell where the dance begun, or where it ended, nor indeed which were legs and which were arms, for they were all flying about together, like the shavings in a saw-pit!
And then they spun round so quickly that the death-horse and the grave-pig became sick and giddy, and were obliged to leave the table.
"Stop!" cried the old goblin," is that the only house-keeping they can perform?
Can they do anything more than dance and throw about their legs, and make a whirlwind?"
"You shall soon see what they can do," said the elf king.
And then he called his youngest daughter to him.
She was slender and fair as moonlight, and the most graceful of all the sisters.
She took a white chip in her mouth, and vanished instantly; this was her accomplishment.
But the old goblin said he should not like his wife to have such an accomplishment, and thought his boys would have the same objection.
Another daughter could make a figure like herself follow her, as if she had a shadow, which none of the goblin folk ever had.
The third was of quite a different sort; she had learnt in the brew-house of the moor witch how to lard elfin puddings with glow-worms.
"She will make a good housewife," said the old goblin, and then saluted her with his eyes instead of drinking her health; for he did not drink much.
Now came the fourth daughter, with a large harp to play upon; and when she struck the first chord, every one lifted up the left leg (for the goblins are left-legged), and at the second chord they found they must all do just what she wanted.
"That is a dangerous woman," said the old goblin; and the two sons walked out of the hill; they had had enough of it.
"And what can the next daughter do?" asked the old goblin.
"I have learnt everything that is Norwegian," said she; "and I will never marry, unless I can go to Norway."
Then her youngest sister whispered to the old goblin, "That is only because she has heard, in a Norwegian song, that when the world shall decay, the cliffs of Norway will remain standing like monuments; and she wants to get there, that she may be safe; for she is so afraid of sinking."
"Ho! ho!" said the old goblin, "is that what she means?
Well, what can the seventh and last do?"
"The sixth comes before the seventh," said the elf king, for he could reckon; but the sixth would not come forward.
"I can only tell people the truth," said she.
"No one cares for me, nor troubles himself about me; and I have enough to do to sew my grave clothes."
So the seventh and last came; and what could she do?
Why, she could tell stories, as many as you liked, on any subject.
"Here are my five fingers," said the old goblin; "now tell me a story for each of them."
So she took him by the wrist, and he laughed till he nearly choked; and when she came to the fourth finger, there was a gold ring on it, as if it knew there was to be a betrothal.
Then the old goblin said, "Hold fast what you have: this hand is yours; for I will have you for a wife myself."
Then the elfin girl said that the stories about the ring-finger and little Peter Playman had not yet been told.
"We will hear them in the winter," said the old goblin, "and also about the fir and the birch-trees, and the ghost stories, and of the tingling frost.
You shall tell your tales, for no one over there can do it so well; and we will sit in the stone rooms, where the pine logs are burning, and drink mead out of the golden drinking-horn of the old Norwegian kings.
The water-god has given me two; and when we sit there, Nix comes to pay us a visit, and will sing you all the songs of the mountain shepherdesses.
How merry we shall be!
The salmon will be leaping in the waterfalls, and dashing against the stone walls, but he will not be able to come in.
It is indeed very pleasant to live in old Norway.
But where are the lads?"
Where indeed were they?
Why, running about the fields, and blowing out the will-o'-the-wisps, who so good-naturedly came and brought their torches.
"What tricks have you been playing?" said the old goblin.
"I have taken a mother for you, and now you may take one of your aunts."
But the youngsters said they would rather make a speech and drink to their good fellowship; they had no wish to marry.
Then they made speeches and drank toasts, and tipped their glasses, to show that they were empty.
Then they took off their coats, and lay down on the table to sleep; for they made themselves quite at home.
But the old goblin danced about the room with his young bride, and exchanged boots with her, which is more fashionable than exchanging rings.
"The cock is crowing," said the old elfin maiden who acted as housekeeper; now we must close the shutters, that the sun may not scorch us."
Then the hill closed up.
But the lizards continued to run up and down the riven tree; and one said to the other, "Oh, how much I was pleased with the old goblin!"
"The boys pleased me better," said the earth-worm.
But then the poor miserable creature could not see.
MANY, many years ago lived an emperor, who thought so much of new clothes that he spent all his money in order to obtain them; his only ambition was to be always well dressed.
He did not care for his soldiers, and the theatre did not amuse him; the only thing, in fact, he thought anything of was to drive out and show a new suit of clothes.
He had a coat for every hour of the day; and as one would say of a king "He is in his cabinet," so one could say of him, "The emperor is in his dressing-room."
The great city where he resided was very gay; every day many strangers from all parts of the globe arrived.
One day two swindlers came to this city; they made people believe that they were weavers, and declared they could manufacture the finest cloth to be imagined.
Their colours and patterns, they said, were not only exceptionally beautiful, but the clothes made of their material possessed the wonderful quality of being invisible to any man who was unfit for his office or unpardonably stupid.
"That must be wonderful cloth," thought the emperor.
"If I were to be dressed in a suit made of this cloth I should be able to find out which men in my empire were unfit for their places, and I could distinguish the clever from the stupid.
I must have this cloth woven for me without delay."
And he gave a large sum of money to the swindlers, in advance, that they should set to work without any loss of time.
They set up two looms, and pretended to be very hard at work, but they did nothing whatever on the looms.
They asked for the finest silk and the most precious gold-cloth; all they got they did away with, and worked at the empty looms till late at night.
"I should very much like to know how they are getting on with the cloth," thought the emperor.
But he felt rather uneasy when he remembered that he who was not fit for his office could not see it.
Personally, he was of opinion that he had nothing to fear, yet he thought it advisable to send somebody else first to see how matters stood.
Everybody in the town knew what a remarkable quality the stuff possessed, and all were anxious to see how bad or stupid their neighbours were.
"I shall send my honest old minister to the weavers," thought the emperor.
"He can judge best how the stuff looks, for he is intelligent, and nobody understands his office better than he."
The good old minister went into the room where the swindlers sat before the empty looms.
"Heaven preserve us!" he thought, and opened his eyes wide, "I cannot see anything at all," but he did not say so.
Both swindlers requested him to come near, and asked him if he did not admire the exquisite pattern and the beautiful colours, pointing to the empty looms.
The poor old minister tried his very best, but he could see nothing, for there was nothing to be seen.
"Oh dear," he thought, "can I be so stupid?
I should never have thought so, and nobody must know it!
Is it possible that I am not fit for my office?
No, no, I cannot say that I was unable to see the cloth."
"Now, have you got nothing to say?" said one of the swindlers, while he pretended to be busily weaving.
"Oh, it is very pretty, exceedingly beautiful," replied the old minister looking through his glasses.
"What a beautiful pattern, what brilliant colours!
I shall tell the emperor that I like the cloth very much."
"We are pleased to hear that," said the two weavers, and described to him the colours and explained the curious pattern.
The old minister listened attentively, that he might relate to the emperor what they said; and so he did.
Now the swindlers asked for more money, silk and gold-cloth, which they required for weaving.
They kept everything for themselves, and not a thread came near the loom, but they continued, as hitherto, to work at the empty looms.
Soon afterwards the emperor sent another honest courtier to the weavers to see how they were getting on, and if the cloth was nearly finished.
Like the old minister, he looked and looked but could see nothing, as there was nothing to be seen.
"Is it not a beautiful piece of cloth?" asked the two swindlers, showing and explaining the magnificent pattern, which, however, did not exist.
"I am not stupid," said the man.
"It is therefore my good appointment for which I am not fit.
It is very strange, but I must not let any one know it;" and he praised the cloth, which he did not see, and expressed his joy at the beautiful colours and the fine pattern.
"It is very excellent," he said to the emperor.
Everybody in the whole town talked about the precious cloth.
At last the emperor wished to see it himself, while it was still on the loom.
With a number of courtiers, including the two who had already been there, he went to the two clever swindlers, who now worked as hard as they could, but without using any thread.
"Is it not magnificent?" said the two old statesmen who had been there before.
"Your Majesty must admire the colours and the pattern."
And then they pointed to the empty looms, for they imagined the others could see the cloth.
"What is this?" thought the emperor, "I do not see anything at all.
That is terrible!
Am I stupid?
Am I unfit to be emperor?
That would indeed be the most dreadful thing that could happen to me."
"Really," he said, turning to the weavers, "your cloth has our most gracious approval;" and nodding contentedly he looked at the empty loom, for he did not like to say that he saw nothing.
All his attendants, who were with him, looked and looked, and although they could not see anything more than the others, they said, like the emperor, "It is very beautiful."
And all advised him to wear the new magnificent clothes at a great procession which was soon to take place.
"It is magnificent, beautiful, excellent," one heard them say; everybody seemed to be delighted, and the emperor appointed the two swindlers "Imperial Court weavers."
The whole night previous to the day on which the procession was to take place, the swindlers pretended to work, and burned more than sixteen candles.
People should see that they were busy to finish the emperor's new suit.
They pretended to take the cloth from the loom, and worked about in the air with big scissors, and sewed with needles without thread, and said at last: "The emperor's new suit is ready now."
The emperor and all his barons then came to the hall; the swindlers held their arms up as if they held something in their hands and said: "These are the trousers!"
"This is the coat!" and "Here is the cloak!" and so on.
"They are all as light as a cobweb, and one must feel as if one had nothing at all upon the body; but that is just the beauty of them."
"Indeed!" said all the courtiers; but they could not see anything, for there was nothing to be seen.
"Does it please your Majesty now to graciously undress," said the swindlers, "that we may assist your Majesty in putting on the new suit before the large looking-glass?"
The emperor undressed, and the swindlers pretended to put the new suit upon him, one piece after another; and the emperor looked at himself in the glass from every side.
"How well they look!
How well they fit!" said all.
"What a beautiful pattern!
What fine colours!
That is a magnificent suit of clothes!"
The master of the ceremonies announced that the bearers of the canopy, which was to be carried in the procession, were ready.
"I am ready," said the emperor.
"Does not my suit fit me marvellously?"
Then he turned once more to the looking-glass, that people should think he admired his garments.
The chamberlains, who were to carry the train, stretched their hands to the ground as if they lifted up a train, and pretended to hold something in their hands; they did not like people to know that they could not see anything.
The emperor marched in the procession under the beautiful canopy, and all who saw him in the street and out of the windows exclaimed: "Indeed, the emperor's new suit is incomparable!
What a long train he has!
How well it fits him!"
Nobody wished to let others know he saw nothing, for then he would have been unfit for his office or too stupid.
Never emperor's clothes were more admired.
"But he has nothing on at all," said a little child at last.
"Good heavens! listen to the voice of an innocent child," said the father, and one whispered to the other what the child had said.
"But he has nothing on at all," cried at last the whole people.
That made a deep impression upon the emperor, for it seemed to him that they were right; but he thought to himself, "Now I must bear up to the end."
And the chamberlains walked with still greater dignity, as if they carried the train which did not exist.
FAR down in the forest, where the warm sun and the fresh air made a sweet resting-place, grew a pretty little fir-tree; and yet it was not happy, it wished so much to be tall like its companions- the pines and firs which grew around it.
The sun shone, and the soft air fluttered its leaves, and the little peasant children passed by, prattling merrily, but the fir-tree heeded them not.
Sometimes the children would bring a large basket of raspberries or strawberries, wreathed on a straw, and seat themselves near the fir-tree, and say, "Is it not a pretty little tree?" which made it feel more unhappy than before.
And yet all this while the tree grew a notch or joint taller every year; for by the number of joints in the stem of a fir-tree we can discover its age.
Still, as it grew, it complained, "Oh! how I wish I were as tall as the other trees, then I would spread out my branches on every side, and my top would over-look the wide world.
I should have the birds building their nests on my boughs, and when the wind blew, I should bow with stately dignity like my tall companions."
The tree was so discontented, that it took no pleasure in the warm sunshine, the birds, or the rosy clouds that floated over it morning and evening.
Sometimes, in winter, when the snow lay white and glittering on the ground, a hare would come springing along, and jump right over the little tree; and then how mortified it would feel!
Two winters passed, and when the third arrived, the tree had grown so tall that the hare was obliged to run round it.
Yet it remained unsatisfied, and would exclaim, "Oh, if I could but keep on growing tall and old!
There is nothing else worth caring for in the world!"
In the autumn, as usual, the wood-cutters came and cut down several of the tallest trees, and the young fir-tree, which was now grown to its full height, shuddered as the noble trees fell to the earth with a crash.
After the branches were lopped off, the trunks looked so slender and bare, that they could scarcely be recognized.
Then they were placed upon wagons, and drawn by horses out of the forest.
"Where were they going?
What would become of them?"
The young fir-tree wished very much to know; so in the spring, when the swallows and the storks came, it asked, "Do you know where those trees were taken?
Did you meet them?"
The swallows knew nothing, but the stork, after a little reflection, nodded his head, and said, "Yes, I think I do.
I met several new ships when I flew from Egypt, and they had fine masts that smelt like fir.
I think these must have been the trees; I assure you they were stately, very stately."
"Oh, how I wish I were tall enough to go on the sea," said the fir-tree.
"What is the sea, and what does it look like?"
"It would take too much time to explain," said the stork, flying quickly away.
"Rejoice in thy youth," said the sunbeam; "rejoice in thy fresh growth, and the young life that is in thee."
And the wind kissed the tree, and the dew watered it with tears; but the fir-tree regarded them not.
Christmas-time drew near, and many young trees were cut down, some even smaller and younger than the fir-tree who enjoyed neither rest nor peace with longing to leave its forest home.
These young trees, which were chosen for their beauty, kept their branches, and were also laid on wagons and drawn by horses out of the forest.
"Where are they going?" asked the fir-tree.
"They are not taller than I am: indeed, one is much less; and why are the branches not cut off?
Where are they going?"
"We know, we know," sang the sparrows; "we have looked in at the windows of the houses in the town, and we know what is done with them.
They are dressed up in the most splendid manner.
We have seen them standing in the middle of a warm room, and adorned with all sorts of beautiful things,- honey cakes, gilded apples, playthings, and many hundreds of wax tapers."
"And then," asked the fir-tree, trembling through all its branches, "and then what happens?"
"We did not see any more," said the sparrows; "but this was enough for us."
"I wonder whether anything so brilliant will ever happen to me," thought the fir-tree.
"It would be much better than crossing the sea.
I long for it almost with pain.
Oh! when will Christmas be here?
I am now as tall and well grown as those which were taken away last year.
Oh! that I were now laid on the wagon, or standing in the warm room, with all that brightness and splendor around me!
Something better and more beautiful is to come after, or the trees would not be so decked out.
Yes, what follows will be grander and more splendid.
What can it be?
I am weary with longing.
I scarcely know how I feel."
"Rejoice with us," said the air and the sunlight.
"Enjoy thine own bright life in the fresh air."
But the tree would not rejoice, though it grew taller every day; and, winter and summer, its dark-green foliage might be seen in the forest, while passers by would say, "What a beautiful tree!"
A short time before Christmas, the discontented fir-tree was the first to fall.
As the axe cut through the stem, and divided the pith, the tree fell with a groan to the earth, conscious of pain and faintness, and forgetting all its anticipations of happiness, in sorrow at leaving its home in the forest.
It knew that it should never again see its dear old companions, the trees, nor the little bushes and many-colored flowers that had grown by its side; perhaps not even the birds.
Neither was the journey at all pleasant.
The tree first recovered itself while being unpacked in the courtyard of a house, with several other trees; and it heard a man say, "We only want one, and this is the prettiest."
Then came two servants in grand livery, and carried the fir-tree into a large and beautiful apartment.
On the walls hung pictures, and near the great stove stood great china vases, with lions on the lids.
There were rocking chairs, silken sofas, large tables, covered with pictures, books, and playthings, worth a great deal of money,- at least, the children said so.
Then the fir-tree was placed in a large tub, full of sand; but green baize hung all around it, so that no one could see it was a tub, and it stood on a very handsome carpet.
How the fir-tree trembled!
"What was going to happen to him now?"
Some young ladies came, and the servants helped them to adorn the tree.
On one branch they hung little bags cut out of colored paper, and each bag was filled with sweetmeats; from other branches hung gilded apples and walnuts, as if they had grown there; and above, and all round, were hundreds of red, blue, and white tapers, which were fastened on the branches.
Dolls, exactly like real babies, were placed under the green leaves,- the tree had never seen such things before,- and at the very top was fastened a glittering star, made of tinsel.
Oh, it was very beautiful!
"This evening," they all exclaimed, "how bright it will be!"
"Oh, that the evening were come," thought the tree, "and the tapers lighted! then I shall know what else is going to happen.
Will the trees of the forest come to see me?
I wonder if the sparrows will peep in at the windows as they fly? shall I grow faster here, and keep on all these ornaments summer and winter?"
But guessing was of very little use; it made his bark ache, and this pain is as bad for a slender fir-tree, as headache is for us.
At last the tapers were lighted, and then what a glistening blaze of light the tree presented!
It trembled so with joy in all its branches, that one of the candles fell among the green leaves and burnt some of them.
"Help! help!" exclaimed the young ladies, but there was no danger, for they quickly extinguished the fire.
After this, the tree tried not to tremble at all, though the fire frightened him; he was so anxious not to hurt any of the beautiful ornaments, even while their brilliancy dazzled him.
And now the folding doors were thrown open, and a troop of children rushed in as if they intended to upset the tree; they were followed more silently by their elders.
For a moment the little ones stood silent with astonishment, and then they shouted for joy, till the room rang, and they danced merrily round the tree, while one present after another was taken from it.
"What are they doing?
What will happen next?" thought the fir.
At last the candles burnt down to the branches and were put out.
Then the children received permission to plunder the tree.
Oh, how they rushed upon it, till the branches cracked, and had it not been fastened with the glistening star to the ceiling, it must have been thrown down.
The children then danced about with their pretty toys, and no one noticed the tree, except the children's maid who came and peeped among the branches to see if an apple or a fig had been forgotten.
"A story, a story," cried the children, pulling a little fat man towards the tree.
"Now we shall be in the green shade," said the man, as he seated himself under it, "and the tree will have the pleasure of hearing also, but I shall only relate one story; what shall it be?
Ivede-Avede, or Humpty Dumpty, who fell down stairs, but soon got up again, and at last married a princess."
"Ivede-Avede," cried some.
"Humpty Dumpty," cried others, and there was a fine shouting and crying out.
But the fir-tree remained quite still, and thought to himself, "Shall I have anything to do with all this?" but he had already amused them as much as they wished.
Then the old man told them the story of Humpty Dumpty, how he fell down stairs, and was raised up again, and married a princess.
And the children clapped their hands and cried, "Tell another, tell another," for they wanted to hear the story of "Ivede-Avede;" but they only had "Humpty Dumpty."
After this the fir-tree became quite silent and thoughtful; never had the birds in the forest told such tales as "Humpty Dumpty," who fell down stairs, and yet married a princess.
"Ah! yes, so it happens in the world," thought the fir-tree; he believed it all, because it was related by such a nice man.
"Ah! well," he thought, "who knows? perhaps I may fall down too, and marry a princess;" and he looked forward joyfully to the next evening, expecting to be again decked out with lights and playthings, gold and fruit.
"To-morrow I will not tremble," thought he; "I will enjoy all my splendor, and I shall hear the story of Humpty Dumpty again, and perhaps Ivede-Avede."
And the tree remained quiet and thoughtful all night.
In the morning the servants and the housemaid came in.
"Now," thought the fir, "all my splendor is going to begin again."
But they dragged him out of the room and up stairs to the garret, and threw him on the floor, in a dark corner, where no daylight shone, and there they left him.
"What does this mean?" thought the tree, "what am I to do here?
I can hear nothing in a place like this," and he had time enough to think, for days and nights passed and no one came near him, and when at last somebody did come, it was only to put away large boxes in a corner.
So the tree was completely hidden from sight as if it had never existed.
"It is winter now," thought the tree, "the ground is hard and covered with snow, so that people cannot plant me.
I shall be sheltered here, I dare say, until spring comes.
How thoughtful and kind everybody is to me!
Still I wish this place were not so dark, as well as lonely, with not even a little hare to look at.
How pleasant it was out in the forest while the snow lay on the ground, when the hare would run by, yes, and jump over me too, although I did not like it then.
Oh! it is terrible lonely here."
"Squeak, squeak," said a little mouse, creeping cautiously towards the tree; then came another; and they both sniffed at the fir-tree and crept between the branches.
"Oh, it is very cold," said the little mouse, "or else we should be so comfortable here, shouldn't we, you old fir-tree?"
"I am not old," said the fir-tree, "there are many who are older than I am."
"Where do you come from? and what do you know?" asked the mice, who were full of curiosity.
"Have you seen the most beautiful places in the world, and can you tell us all about them? and have you been in the storeroom, where cheeses lie on the shelf, and hams hang from the ceiling?
One can run about on tallow candles there, and go in thin and come out fat."
"I know nothing of that place," said the fir-tree, "but I know the wood where the sun shines and the birds sing."
And then the tree told the little mice all about its youth.
They had never heard such an account in their lives; and after they had listened to it attentively, they said, "What a number of things you have seen? you must have been very happy."
"Happy!" exclaimed the fir-tree, and then as he reflected upon what he had been telling them, he said, "Ah, yes! after all those were happy days."
But when he went on and related all about Christmas-eve, and how he had been dressed up with cakes and lights, the mice said, "How happy you must have been, you old fir-tree."
"I am not old at all," replied the tree, "I only came from the forest this winter, I am now checked in my growth."
"What splendid stories you can relate," said the little mice.
And the next night four other mice came with them to hear what the tree had to tell.
The more he talked the more he remembered, and then he thought to himself, "Those were happy days, but they may come again.
Humpty Dumpty fell down stairs, and yet he married the princess; perhaps I may marry a princess too."
And the fir-tree thought of the pretty little birch-tree that grew in the forest, which was to him a real beautiful princess.
"Who is Humpty Dumpty?" asked the little mice.
And then the tree related the whole story; he could remember every single word, and the little mice was so delighted with it, that they were ready to jump to the top of the tree.
The next night a great many more mice made their appearance, and on Sunday two rats came with them; but they said, it was not a pretty story at all, and the little mice were very sorry, for it made them also think less of it.
"Do you know only one story?" asked the rats.
"Only one," replied the fir-tree; "I heard it on the happiest evening of my life; but I did not know I was so happy at the time."
"We think it is a very miserable story," said the rats.
"Don't you know any story about bacon, or tallow in the storeroom."
"No," replied the tree.
"Many thanks to you then," replied the rats, and they marched off.
The little mice also kept away after this, and the tree sighed, and said, "It was very pleasant when the merry little mice sat round me and listened while I talked.
Now that is all passed too.
However, I shall consider myself happy when some one comes to take me out of this place."
But would this ever happen?
Yes; one morning people came to clear out the garret, the boxes were packed away, and the tree was pulled out of the corner, and thrown roughly on the garret floor; then the servant dragged it out upon the staircase where the daylight shone.
"Now life is beginning again," said the tree, rejoicing in the sunshine and fresh air.
Then it was carried down stairs and taken into the courtyard so quickly, that it forgot to think of itself, and could only look about, there was so much to be seen.
The court was close to a garden, where everything looked blooming.
Fresh and fragrant roses hung over the little palings.
The linden-trees were in blossom; while the swallows flew here and there, crying, "Twit, twit, twit, my mate is coming,"- but it was not the fir-tree they meant.
"Now I shall live," cried the tree, joyfully spreading out its branches; but alas! they were all withered and yellow, and it lay in a corner amongst weeds and nettles.
The star of gold paper still stuck in the top of the tree and glittered in the sunshine.
In the same courtyard two of the merry children were playing who had danced round the tree at Christmas, and had been so happy.
The youngest saw the gilded star, and ran and pulled it off the tree.
"Look what is sticking to the ugly old fir-tree," said the child, treading on the branches till they crackled under his boots.
And the tree saw all the fresh bright flowers in the garden, and then looked at itself, and wished it had remained in the dark corner of the garret.
It thought of its fresh youth in the forest, of the merry Christmas evening, and of the little mice who had listened to the story of "Humpty Dumpty."
"Past! past!" said the old tree; "Oh, had I but enjoyed myself while I could have done so! but now it is too late."
Then a lad came and chopped the tree into small pieces, till a large bundle lay in a heap on the ground.
The pieces were placed in a fire under the copper, and they quickly blazed up brightly, while the tree sighed so deeply that each sigh was like a pistol-shot.
Then the children, who were at play, came and seated themselves in front of the fire, and looked at it and cried, "Pop, pop."
But at each "pop," which was a deep sigh, the tree was thinking of a summer day in the forest; and of Christmas evening, and of "Humpty Dumpty," the only story it had ever heard or knew how to relate, till at last it was consumed.
The boys still played in the garden, and the youngest wore the golden star on his breast, with which the tree had been adorned during the happiest evening of its existence.
Now all was past; the tree's life was past, and the story also,- for all stories must come to an end at last.
THE flax was in full bloom; it had pretty little blue flowers as delicate as the wings of a moth, or even more so.
The sun shone, and the showers watered it; and this was just as good for the flax as it is for little children to be washed and then kissed by their mother.
They look much prettier for it, and so did the flax.
"People say that I look exceedingly well," said the flax, "and that I am so fine and long that I shall make a beautiful piece of linen.
How fortunate I am; it makes me so happy, it is such a pleasant thing to know that something can be made of me.
How the sunshine cheers me, and how sweet and refreshing is the rain; my happiness overpowers me, no one in the world can feel happier than I am."
"Ah, yes, no doubt," said the fern, "but you do not know the world yet as well as I do, for my sticks are knotty;" and then it sung quite mournfully-
"Snip, snap, snurre, Basse lurre: The song is ended."
"No, it is not ended," said the flax.
"To-morrow the sun will shine, or the rain descend.
I feel that I am growing.
I feel that I am in full blossom.
I am the happiest of all creatures."
Well, one day some people came, who took hold of the flax, and pulled it up by the roots; this was painful; then it was laid in water as if they intended to drown it; and, after that, placed near a fire as if it were to be roasted; all this was very shocking.
"We cannot expect to be happy always," said the flax; "by experiencing evil as well as good, we become wise."
And certainly there was plenty of evil in store for the flax.
It was steeped, and roasted, and broken, and combed; indeed, it scarcely knew what was done to it.
At last it was put on the spinning wheel.
"Whirr, whirr," went the wheel so quickly that the flax could not collect its thoughts.
"Well, I have been very happy," he thought in the midst of his pain, "and must be contented with the past;" and contented he remained till he was put on the loom, and became a beautiful piece of white linen.
All the flax, even to the last stalk, was used in making this one piece.
"Well, this is quite wonderful; I could not have believed that I should be so favored by fortune.
The fern was not wrong with its song of
'Snip, snap, snurre, Basse lurre.'
But the song is not ended yet, I am sure; it is only just beginning.
How wonderful it is, that after all I have suffered, I am made something of at last; I am the luckiest person in the world- so strong and fine; and how white, and what a length!
This is something different to being a mere plant and bearing flowers.
Then I had no attention, nor any water unless it rained; now, I am watched and taken care of.
Every morning the maid turns me over, and I have a shower-bath from the watering-pot every evening.
Yes, and the clergyman's wife noticed me, and said I was the best piece of linen in the whole parish.
I cannot be happier than I am now."
After some time, the linen was taken into the house, placed under the scissors, and cut and torn into pieces, and then pricked with needles.
This certainly was not pleasant; but at last it was made into twelve garments of that kind which people do not like to name, and yet everybody should wear one.
"See, now, then," said the flax; "I have become something of importance.
This was my destiny; it is quite a blessing.
Now I shall be of some use in the world, as everyone ought to be; it is the only way to be happy.
I am now divided into twelve pieces, and yet we are all one and the same in the whole dozen.
It is most extraordinary good fortune."
Years passed away, and at last the linen was so worn it could scarcely hold together.
"It must end very soon," said the pieces to each other; "we would gladly have held together a little longer, but it is useless to expect impossibilities."
And at length they fell into rags and tatters, and thought it was all over with them, for they were torn to shreds, and steeped in water, and made into a pulp, and dried, and they knew not what besides, till all at once they found themselves beautiful white paper.
"Well, now, this is a surprise; a glorious surprise too," said the paper.
"I am now finer than ever, and I shall be written upon, and who can tell what fine things I may have written upon me.
This is wonderful luck!"
And sure enough the most beautiful stories and poetry were written upon it, and only once was there a blot, which was very fortunate.
Then people heard the stories and poetry read, and it made them wiser and better; for all that was written had a good and sensible meaning, and a great blessing was contained in the words on this paper.
"I never imagined anything like this," said the paper, "when I was only a little blue flower, growing in the fields.
How could I fancy that I should ever be the means of bringing knowledge and joy to man?
I cannot understand it myself, and yet it is really so.
Heaven knows that I have done nothing myself, but what I was obliged to do with my weak powers for my own preservation; and yet I have been promoted from one joy and honor to another.
Each time I think that the song is ended; and then something higher and better begins for me.
I suppose now I shall be sent on my travels about the world, so that people may read me.
It cannot be otherwise; indeed, it is more than probable; for I have more splendid thoughts written upon me, than I had pretty flowers in olden times.
I am happier than ever."
But the paper did not go on its travels; it was sent to the printer, and all the words written upon it were set up in type, to make a book, or rather, many hundreds of books; for so many more persons could derive pleasure and profit from a printed book, than from the written paper; and if the paper had been sent around the world, it would have been worn out before it had got half through its journey.
"This is certainly the wisest plan," said the written paper; "I really did not think of that.
I shall remain at home, and be held in honor, like some old grandfather, as I really am to all these new books.
They will do some good.
I could not have wandered about as they do.
Yet he who wrote all this has looked at me, as every word flowed from his pen upon my surface.
I am the most honored of all."
Then the paper was tied in a bundle with other papers, and thrown into a tub that stood in the washhouse.
"After work, it is well to rest," said the paper, "and a very good opportunity to collect one's thoughts.
Now I am able, for the first time, to think of my real condition; and to know one's self is true progress.
What will be done with me now, I wonder?
No doubt I shall still go forward.
I have always progressed hitherto, as I know quite well."
Now it happened one day that all the paper in the tub was taken out, and laid on the hearth to be burnt.
People said it could not be sold at the shop, to wrap up butter and sugar, because it had been written upon.
The children in the house stood round the stove; for they wanted to see the paper burn, because it flamed up so prettily, and afterwards, among the ashes, so many red sparks could be seen running one after the other, here and there, as quick as the wind.
They called it seeing the children come out of school, and the last spark was the schoolmaster.
They often thought the last spark had come; and one would cry, "There goes the schoolmaster;" but the next moment another spark would appear, shining so beautifully.
How they would like to know where the sparks all went to!
Perhaps we shall find out some day, but we don't know now.
The whole bundle of paper had been placed on the fire, and was soon alight.
"Ugh," cried the paper, as it burst into a bright flame; "ugh."
It was certainly not very pleasant to be burning; but when the whole was wrapped in flames, the flames mounted up into the air, higher than the flax had ever been able to raise its little blue flower, and they glistened as the white linen never could have glistened.
All the written letters became quite red in a moment, and all the words and thoughts turned to fire.
"Now I am mounting straight up to the sun," said a voice in the flames; and it was as if a thousand voices echoed the words; and the flames darted up through the chimney, and went out at the top.
Then a number of tiny beings, as many in number as the flowers on the flax had been, and invisible to mortal eyes, floated above them.
They were even lighter and more delicate than the flowers from which they were born; and as the flames were extinguished, and nothing remained of the paper but black ashes, these little beings danced upon it; and whenever they touched it, bright red sparks appeared.
"The children are all out of school, and the schoolmaster was the last of all," said the children.
It was good fun, and they sang over the dead ashes,-
"Snip, snap, snurre, Basse lure: The song is ended."
But the little invisible beings said, "The song is never ended; the most beautiful is yet to come."
But the children could neither hear nor understand this, nor should they; for children must not know everything.
THERE was once a merchant who was so rich that he could have paved the whole street with gold, and would even then have had enough for a small alley.
But he did not do so; he knew the value of money better than to use it in this way.
So clever was he, that every shilling he put out brought him a crown; and so he continued till he died.
His son inherited his wealth, and he lived a merry life with it; he went to a masquerade every night, made kites out of five pound notes, and threw pieces of gold into the sea instead of stones, making ducks and drakes of them.
In this manner he soon lost all his money.
At last he had nothing left but a pair of slippers, an old dressing-gown, and four shillings.
And now all his friends deserted him, they could not walk with him in the streets; but one of them, who was very good-natured, sent him an old trunk with this message, "Pack up!"
"Yes," he said, "it is all very well to say 'pack up,' "but he had nothing left to pack up, therefore he seated himself in the trunk.
It was a very wonderful trunk; no sooner did any one press on the lock than the trunk could fly.
He shut the lid and pressed the lock, when away flew the trunk up the chimney with the merchant's son in it, right up into the clouds.
Whenever the bottom of the trunk cracked, he was in a great fright, for if the trunk fell to pieces he would have made a tremendous somerset over the trees.
However, he got safely in his trunk to the land of Turkey.
He hid the trunk in the wood under some dry leaves, and then went into the town: he could so this very well, for the Turks always go about dressed in dressing-gowns and slippers, as he was himself.
He happened to meet a nurse with a little child.
"I say, you Turkish nurse," cried he, "what castle is that near the town, with the windows placed so high?"
"The king's daughter lives there," she replied; "it has been prophesied that she will be very unhappy about a lover, and therefore no one is allowed to visit her, unless the king and queen are present."
"Thank you," said the merchant's son.
So he went back to the wood, seated himself in his trunk, flew up to the roof of the castle, and crept through the window into the princess's room.
She lay on the sofa asleep, and she was so beautiful that the merchant's son could not help kissing her.
Then she awoke, and was very much frightened; but he told her he was a Turkish angel, who had come down through the air to see her, which pleased her very much.
He sat down by her side and talked to her: he said her eyes were like beautiful dark lakes, in which the thoughts swam about like little mermaids, and he told her that her forehead was a snowy mountain, which contained splendid halls full of pictures.
And then he related to her about the stork who brings the beautiful children from the rivers.
These were delightful stories; and when he asked the princess if she would marry him, she consented immediately.
"But you must come on Saturday," she said; "for then the king and queen will take tea with me.
They will be very proud when they find that I am going to marry a Turkish angel; but you must think of some very pretty stories to tell them, for my parents like to hear stories better than anything.
My mother prefers one that is deep and moral; but my father likes something funny, to make him laugh."
"Very well," he replied; "I shall bring you no other marriage portion than a story," and so they parted.
But the princess gave him a sword which was studded with gold coins, and these he could use.
Then he flew away to the town and bought a new dressing-gown, and afterwards returned to the wood, where he composed a story, so as to be ready for Saturday, which was no easy matter.
It was ready however by Saturday, when he went to see the princess.
The king, and queen, and the whole court, were at tea with the princess; and he was received with great politeness.
"Will you tell us a story?" said the queen,- "one that is instructive and full of deep learning."
"Yes, but with something in it to laugh at," said the king.
"Certainly," he replied, and commenced at once, asking them to listen attentively.
"There was once a bundle of matches that were exceedingly proud of their high descent.
Their genealogical tree, that is, a large pine-tree from which they had been cut, was at one time a large, old tree in the wood.
The matches now lay between a tinder-box and an old iron saucepan, and were talking about their youthful days.
'Ah! then we grew on the green boughs, and were as green as they; every morning and evening we were fed with diamond drops of dew.
Whenever the sun shone, we felt his warm rays, and the little birds would relate stories to us as they sung.
We knew that we were rich, for the other trees only wore their green dress in summer, but our family were able to array themselves in green, summer and winter.
But the wood-cutter came, like a great revolution, and our family fell under the axe.
The head of the house obtained a situation as mainmast in a very fine ship, and can sail round the world when he will.
The other branches of the family were taken to different places, and our office now is to kindle a light for common people.
This is how such high-born people as we came to be in a kitchen.'
"'Mine has been a very different fate,' said the iron pot, which stood by the matches; 'from my first entrance into the world I have been used to cooking and scouring.
I am the first in this house, when anything solid or useful is required.
My only pleasure is to be made clean and shining after dinner, and to sit in my place and have a little sensible conversation with my neighbors.
All of us, excepting the water-bucket, which is sometimes taken into the courtyard, live here together within these four walls.
We get our news from the market-basket, but he sometimes tells us very unpleasant things about the people and the government.
Yes, and one day an old pot was so alarmed, that he fell down and was broken to pieces.
He was a liberal, I can tell you.'
"'You are talking too much,' said the tinder-box, and the steel struck against the flint till some sparks flew out, crying, 'We want a merry evening, don't we?'
"'Yes, of course,' said the matches, 'let us talk about those who are the highest born.'
"'No, I don't like to be always talking of what we are,' remarked the saucepan; 'let us think of some other amusement; I will begin.
We will tell something that has happened to ourselves; that will be very easy, and interesting as well.
On the Baltic Sea, near the Danish shore'- "'What a pretty commencement!' said the plates; 'we shall all like that story, I am sure.'
"'Yes; well in my youth, I lived in a quiet family, where the furniture was polished, the floors scoured, and clean curtains put up every fortnight,' "'What an interesting way you have of relating a story,' said the carpet-broom; 'it is easy to perceive that you have been a great deal in women's society, there is something so pure runs through what you say.'
"'That is quite true,' said the water-bucket; and he made a spring with joy, and splashed some water on the floor.
"Then the saucepan went on with his story, and the end was as good as the beginning.
"The plates rattled with pleasure, and the carpet-broom brought some green parsley out of the dust-hole and crowned the saucepan, for he knew it would vex the others; and he thought, 'If I crown him to-day he will crown me to-morrow.'
"'Now, let us have a dance,' said the fire-tongs; and then how they danced and stuck up one leg in the air.
The chair-cushion in the corner burst with laughter when she saw it.
"'Shall I be crowned now?' asked the fire-tongs; so the broom found another wreath for the tongs.
"'They were only common people after all,' thought the matches.
The tea-urn was now asked to sing, but she said she had a cold, and could not sing without boiling heat.
They all thought this was affectation, and because she did not wish to sing excepting in the parlor, when on the table with the grand people.
"In the window sat an old quill-pen, with which the maid generally wrote.
There was nothing remarkable about the pen, excepting that it had been dipped too deeply in the ink, but it was proud of that.
"'If the tea-urn won't sing,' said the pen, 'she can leave it alone; there is a nightingale in a cage who can sing; she has not been taught much, certainly, but we need not say anything this evening about that.'
"'I think it highly improper,' said the tea-kettle, who was kitchen singer, and half-brother to the tea-urn, 'that a rich foreign bird should be listened to here.
Is it patriotic?
Let the market-basket decide what is right.'
"'I certainly am vexed,' said the basket; 'inwardly vexed, more than any one can imagine.
Are we spending the evening properly?
Would it not be more sensible to put the house in order?
If each were in his own place I would lead a game; this would be quite another thing.'
"'Let us act a play,' said they all.
At the same moment the door opened, and the maid came in.
Then not one stirred; they all remained quite still; yet, at the same time, there was not a single pot amongst them who had not a high opinion of himself, and of what he could do if he chose.
"'Yes, if we had chosen,' they each thought, 'we might have spent a very pleasant evening.'
"The maid took the matches and lighted them; dear me, how they sputtered and blazed up!
"'Now then,' they thought, 'every one will see that we are the first.
How we shine; what a light we give!'
Even while they spoke their light went out.
"What a capital story," said the queen, "I feel as if I were really in the kitchen, and could see the matches; yes, you shall marry our daughter."
"Certainly," said the king, "thou shalt have our daughter."
The king said thou to him because he was going to be one of the family.
The wedding-day was fixed, and, on the evening before, the whole city was illuminated.
Cakes and sweetmeats were thrown among the people.
The street boys stood on tiptoe and shouted "hurrah," and whistled between their fingers; altogether it was a very splendid affair.
"I will give them another treat," said the merchant's son.
So he went and bought rockets and crackers, and all sorts of fire-works that could be thought of, packed them in his trunk, and flew up with it into the air.
What a whizzing and popping they made as they went off!
The Turks, when they saw such a sight in the air, jumped so high that their slippers flew about their ears.
It was easy to believe after this that the princess was really going to marry a Turkish angel.
As soon as the merchant's son had come down in his flying trunk to the wood after the fireworks, he thought, "I will go back into the town now, and hear what they think of the entertainment."
It was very natural that he should wish to know.
And what strange things people did say, to be sure! every one whom he questioned had a different tale to tell, though they all thought it very beautiful.
"'I saw the Turkish angel myself," said one; "he had eyes like glittering stars, and a head like foaming water."
"He flew in a mantle of fire," cried another, "and lovely little cherubs peeped out from the folds."
He heard many more fine things about himself, and that the next day he was to be married.
After this he went back to the forest to rest himself in his trunk.
It had disappeared!
A spark from the fireworks which remained had set it on fire; it was burnt to ashes!
So the merchant's son could not fly any more, nor go to meet his bride.
She stood all day on the roof waiting for him, and most likely she is waiting there still; while he wanders through the world telling fairy tales, but none of them so amusing as the one he related about the matches.
THE little dwelling in which we lived was of clay, but the door-posts were columns of fluted marble, found near the spot on which it stood.
The roof sloped nearly to the ground.
It was at this time dark, brown, and ugly, but had originally been formed of blooming olive and laurel branches, brought from beyond the mountains.
The house was situated in a narrow gorge, whose rocky walls rose to a perpendicular height, naked and black, while round their summits clouds often hung, looking like white living figures.
Not a singing bird was ever heard there, neither did men dance to the sound of the pipe.
The spot was one sacred to olden times; even its name recalled a memory of the days when it was called "Delphi."
Then the summits of the dark, sacred mountains were covered with snow, and the highest, mount Parnassus, glowed longest in the red evening light.
The brook which rolled from it near our house, was also sacred.
How well I can remember every spot in that deep, sacred solitude!
A fire had been kindled in the midst of the hut, and while the hot ashes lay there red and glowing, the bread was baked in them.
At times the snow would be piled so high around our hut as almost to hide it, and then my mother appeared most cheerful.
She would hold my head between her hands, and sing the songs she never sang at other times, for the Turks, our masters, would not allow it.
She sang,- "On the summit of mount Olympus, in a forest of dwarf firs, lay an old stag.
His eyes were heavy with tears, and glittering with colors like dewdrops; and there came by a roebuck, and said, 'What ailest thee, that thou weepest blue and red tears?'
And the stag answered, 'The Turk has come to our city; he has wild dogs for the chase, a goodly pack.' 'I will drive them away across the islands!' cried the young roebuck; 'I will drive them away across the islands into the deep sea.'
But before evening the roebuck was slain, and before night the hunted stag was dead."
And when my mother sang thus, her eyes would become moist; and on the long eyelashes were tears, but she concealed them and watched the black bread baking in the ashes.
Then I would clench my fist, and cry, "We will kill these Turks!"
But she repeated the words of the song, "I will drive them across the islands to the deep sea; but before evening came the roebuck was slain, and before the night the hunted stag was dead."
We had been lonely in our hut for several days and nights when my father came home.
I knew he would bring me some shells from the gulf of Lepanto, or perhaps a knife with a shining blade.
This time he brought, under his sheep-skin cloak, a little child, a little half-naked girl.
She was wrapped in a fur; but when this was taken off, and she lay in my mother's lap, three silver coins were found fastened in her dark hair; they were all her possessions.
My father told us that the child's parents had been killed by the Turks, and he talked so much about them that I dreamed of Turks all night.
He himself had been wounded, and my mother bound up his arm.
It was a deep wound, and the thick sheep-skin cloak was stiff with congealed blood.
The little maiden was to be my sister.
How pretty and bright she looked: even my mother's eyes were not more gentle than hers.
Anastasia, as she was called, was to be my sister, because her father had been united to mine by an old custom, which we still follow.
They had sworn brotherhood in their youth, and the most beautiful and virtuous maiden in the neighborhood was chosen to perform the act of consecration upon this bond of friendship.
So now this little girl was my sister.
She sat in my lap, and I brought her flowers, and feathers from the birds of the mountain.
We drank together of the waters of Parnassus, and dwelt for many years beneath the laurel roof of the hut, while, winter after winter, my mother sang her song of the stag who shed red tears.
But as yet I did not understand that the sorrows of my own countrymen were mirrored in those tears.
One day there came to our hut Franks, men from a far country, whose dress was different to ours.
They had tents and beds with them, carried by horses; and they were accompanied by more than twenty Turks, all armed with swords and muskets.
These Franks were friends of the Pacha, and had letters from him, commanding an escort for them.
They only came to see our mountain, to ascend Parnassus amid the snow and clouds, and to look at the strange black rocks which raised their steep sides near our hut.
They could not find room in the hut, nor endure the smoke that rolled along the ceiling till it found its way out at the low door; so they pitched their tents on a small space outside our dwelling.
Roasted lambs and birds were brought forth, and strong, sweet wine, of which the Turks are forbidden to partake.
When they departed, I accompanied them for some distance, carrying my little sister Anastasia, wrapped in a goat-skin, on my back.
One of the Frankish gentlemen made me stand in front of a rock, and drew us both as we stood there, so that we looked like one creature.
I did not think of it then, but Anastasia and I were really one.
She was always sitting on my lap, or riding in the goat-skin on my back; and in my dreams she always appeared to me.
Two nights after this, other men, armed with knives and muskets, came into our tent.
They were Albanians, brave men, my mother told me.
They only stayed a short time.
My sister Anastasia sat on the knee of one of them; and when they were gone, she had not three, but two silver coins in her hair- one had disappeared.
They wrapped tobacco in strips of paper, and smoked it; and I remember they were uncertain as to the road they ought to take.
But they were obliged to go at last, and my father went with them.
Soon after, we heard the sound of firing.
The noise continued, and presently soldiers rushed into our hut, and took my mother and myself and Anastasia prisoners.
They declared that we had entertained robbers, and that my father had acted as their guide, and therefore we must now go with them.
The corpses of the robbers, and my father's corpse, were brought into the hut.
I saw my poor dead father, and cried till I fell asleep.
When I awoke, I found myself in a prison; but the room was not worse than our own in the hut.
They gave me onions and musty wine from a tarred cask; but we were not accustomed to much better fare at home.
How long we were kept in prison, I do not know; but many days and nights passed by.
We were set free about Easter-time.
I carried Anastasia on my back, and we walked very slowly; for my mother was very weak, and it is a long way to the sea, to the Gulf of Lepanto.
On our arrival, we entered a church, in which there were beautiful pictures in golden frames.
They were pictures of angels, fair and bright; and yet our little Anastasia looked equally beautiful, as it seemed to me.
In the centre of the floor stood a coffin filled with roses.
My mother told me it was the Lord Jesus Christ who was represented by these roses.
Then the priest announced, "Christ is risen," and all the people greeted each other.
Each one carried a burning taper in his hand, and one was given to me, as well as to little Anastasia.
The music sounded, and the people left the church hand-in-hand, with joy and gladness.
Outside, the women were roasting the paschal lamb.
We were invited to partake; and as I sat by the fire, a boy, older than myself, put his arms round my neck, and kissed me, and said, "Christ is risen."
And thus it was that for the first time I met Aphtanides.
My mother could make fishermen's nets, for which there was a great demand here in the bay; and we lived a long time by the side of the sea, the beautiful sea, that had a taste like tears, and in its colors reminded me of the stag that wept red tears; for sometimes its waters were red, and sometimes green or blue.
Aphtanides knew how to manage our boat, and I often sat in it, with my little Anastasia, while it glided on through the water, swift as a bird flying through the air.
Then, when the sun set, how beautifully, deeply blue, would be the tint on the mountains, one rising above the other in the far distance, and the summit of mount Parnassus rising above them all like a glorious crown.
Its top glittered in the evening rays like molten gold, and it seemed as if the light came from within it; for long after the sun had sunk beneath the horizon, the mountain-top would glow in the clear, blue sky.
The white aquatic birds skimmed the surface of the water in their flight, and all was calm and still as amid the black rocks at Delphi.
I lay on my back in the boat, Anastasia leaned against me, while the stars above us glittered more brightly than the lamps in our church.
They were the same stars, and in the same position over me as when I used to sit in front of our hut at Delphi, and I had almost begun to fancy I was still there, when suddenly there was a splash in the water- Anastasia had fallen in; but in a moment Aphtanides has sprung in after her, and was now holding her up to me.
We dried her clothes as well as we were able, and remained on the water till they were dry; for we did not wish it to be known what a fright we had had, nor the danger which our little adopted sister had incurred, in whose life Aphtanides had now a part.
The summer came, and the burning heat of the sun tinted the leaves of the trees with lines of gold.
I thought of our cool mountain-home, and the fresh water that flowed near it; my mother, too, longed for if, and one evening we wandered towards home.
How peaceful and silent it was as we walked on through the thick, wild thyme, still fragrant, though the sun had scorched the leaves.
Not a single herdsman did we meet, not a solitary hut did we pass; everything appeared lonely and deserted- only a shooting star showed that in the heavens there was yet life.
I know not whether the clear, blue atmosphere gleamed with its own light, or if the radiance came from the stars; but we could distinguish quite plainly the outline of the mountains.
My mother lighted a fire, and roasted some roots she had brought with her, and I and my little sister slept among the bushes, without fear of the ugly smidraki, from whose throat issues fire, or of the wolf and the jackal; for my mother sat by us, and I considered her presence sufficient protection.
We reached our old home; but the cottage was in ruins, and we had to build a new one.
With the aid of some neighbors, chiefly women, the walls were in a few days erected, and very soon covered with a roof of olive-branches.
My mother obtained a living by making bottle-cases of bark and skins, and I kept the sheep belonging to the priests, who were sometimes peasants, while I had for my playfellows Anastasia and the turtles.
Once our beloved Aphtanides paid us a visit.
He said he had been longing to see us so much; and he remained with us two whole happy days.
A month afterwards he came again to wish us good-bye, and brought with him a large fish for my mother.
He told us he was going in a ship to Corfu and Patras, and could relate a great many stories, not only about the fishermen who lived near the gulf of Lepanto, but also of kings and heroes who had once possessed Greece, just as the Turks possess it now.
I have seen a bud on a rose-bush gradually, in the course of a few weeks, unfold its leaves till it became a rose in all its beauty; and, before I was aware of it, I beheld it blooming in rosy loveliness.
The same thing had happened to Anastasia.
Unnoticed by me, she had gradually become a beautiful maiden, and I was now also a stout, strong youth.
The wolf-skins that covered the bed in which my mother and Anastasia slept, had been taken from wolves which I had myself shot.
Years had gone by when, one evening, Aphtanides came in.
He had grown tall and slender as a reed, with strong limbs, and a dark, brown skin.
He kissed us all, and had so much to tell of what he had seen of the great ocean, of the fortifications at Malta, and of the marvellous sepulchres of Egypt, that I looked up to him with a kind of veneration.
His stories were as strange as the legends of the priests of olden times.
"How much you know!"
I exclaimed, "and what wonders you can relate?"
"I think what you once told me, the finest of all," he replied; "you told me of a thing that has never been out of my thoughts- of the good old custom of 'the bond of friendship,'- a custom I should like to follow.
Brother, let you and I go to church, as your father and Anastasia's father once did.
Your sister Anastasia is the most beautiful and most innocent of maidens, and she shall consecrate the deed.
No people have such grand old customs as we Greeks."
Anastasia blushed like a young rose, and my mother kissed Aphtanides.
At about two miles from our cottage, where the earth on the hill is sheltered by a few scattered trees, stood the little church, with a silver lamp hanging before the altar.
I put on my best clothes, and the white tunic fell in graceful folds over my hips.
The red jacket fitted tight and close, the tassel on my Fez cap was of silver, and in my girdle glittered a knife and my pistols.
Aphtanides was clad in the blue dress worn by the Greek sailors; on his breast hung a silver medal with the figure of the Virgin Mary, and his scarf was as costly as those worn by rich lords.
Every one could see that we were about to perform a solemn ceremony.
When we entered the little, unpretending church, the evening sunlight streamed through the open door on the burning lamp, and glittered on the golden picture frames.
We knelt down together on the altar steps, and Anastasia drew near and stood beside us.
A long, white garment fell in graceful folds over her delicate form, and on her white neck and bosom hung a chain entwined with old and new coins, forming a kind of collar.
Her black hair was fastened into a knot, and confined by a headdress formed of gold and silver coins which had been found in an ancient temple.
No Greek girl had more beautiful ornaments than these.
Her countenance glowed, and her eyes were like two stars.
We all three offered a silent prayer, and then she said to us, "Will you be friends in life and in death?"
"Yes," we replied.
"Will you each remember to say, whatever may happen, 'My brother is a part of myself; his secret is my secret, my happiness is his; self-sacrifice, patience, everything belongs to me as they do to him?'"
And we again answered, "Yes."
Then she joined out hands and kissed us on the forehead, and we again prayed silently.
After this a priest came through a door near the altar, and blessed us all three.
Then a song was sung by other holy men behind the altar-screen, and the bond of eternal friendship was confirmed.
When we arose, I saw my mother standing by the church door, weeping.
How cheerful everything seemed now in our little cottage by the Delphian springs!
On the evening before his departure, Aphtanides sat thoughtfully beside me on the slopes of the mountain.
His arm was flung around me, and mine was round his neck.
We spoke of the sorrows of Greece, and of the men of the country who could be trusted.
Every thought of our souls lay clear before us.
Presently I seized his hand: "Aphtanides," I exclaimed, "there is one thing still that you must know,- one thing that till now has been a secret between myself and Heaven.
My whole soul is filled with love,- with a love stronger than the love I bear to my mother and to thee.
"And whom do you love?" asked Aphtanides.
And his face and neck grew red as fire.
"I love Anastasia," I replied.
Then his hand trembled in mine, and he became pale as a corpse.
I saw it, I understood the cause, and I believe my hand trembled too.
I bent towards him, I kissed his forehead, and whispered, "I have never spoken of this to her, and perhaps she does not love me.
Brother, think of this; I have seen her daily, she has grown up beside me, and has become a part of my soul."
"And she shall be thine," he exclaimed; "thine!
I may not wrong thee, nor will I do so.
I also love her, but tomorrow I depart.
In a year we will see each other again, but then you will be married; shall it not be so?
I have a little gold of my own, it shall be yours.
You must and shall take it."
We wandered silently homeward across the mountains.
It was late in the evening when we reached my mother's door.
Anastasia held the lamp as we entered; my mother was not there.
She looked at Aphtanides with a sweet but mournful expression on her face.
"To-morrow you are going to leave us," she said.
"I am very sorry."
"Sorry!" he exclaimed, and his voice was troubled with a grief as deep as my own.
I could not speak; but he seized her hand and said, "Our brother yonder loves you, and is he not dear to you?
His very silence now proves his affection."
Anastasia trembled, and burst into tears.
Then I saw no one, thought of none, but her.
I threw my arms round her, and pressed my lips to hers.
As she flung her arms round my neck, the lamp fell to the ground, and we were in darkness, dark as the heart of poor Aphtanides.
Before daybreak he rose, kissed us all, and said "Farewell," and went away.
He had given all his money to my mother for us.
Anastasia was betrothed to me, and in a few days afterwards she became my wife.
THERE was once a regular student, who lived in a garret, and had no possessions.
And there was also a regular huckster, to whom the house belonged, and who occupied the ground floor.
A goblin lived with the huckster, because at Christmas he always had a large dish full of jam, with a great piece of butter in the middle.
The huckster could afford this; and therefore the goblin remained with the huckster, which was very cunning of him.
One evening the student came into the shop through the back door to buy candles and cheese for himself, he had no one to send, and therefore he came himself; he obtained what he wished, and then the huckster and his wife nodded good evening to him, and she was a woman who could do more than merely nod, for she had usually plenty to say for herself.
The student nodded in return as he turned to leave, then suddenly stopped, and began reading the piece of paper in which the cheese was wrapped.
It was a leaf torn out of an old book, a book that ought not to have been torn up, for it was full of poetry.
"Yonder lies some more of the same sort," said the huckster: "I gave an old woman a few coffee berries for it; you shall have the rest for sixpence, if you will."
"Indeed I will," said the student; "give me the book instead of the cheese; I can eat my bread and butter without cheese.
It would be a sin to tear up a book like this.
You are a clever man; and a practical man; but you understand no more about poetry than that cask yonder."
This was a very rude speech, especially against the cask; but the huckster and the student both laughed, for it was only said in fun.
But the goblin felt very angry that any man should venture to say such things to a huckster who was a householder and sold the best butter.
As soon as it was night, and the shop closed, and every one in bed except the student, the goblin stepped softly into the bedroom where the huckster's wife slept, and took away her tongue, which of course, she did not then want.
Whatever object in the room he placed his tongue upon immediately received voice and speech, and was able to express its thoughts and feelings as readily as the lady herself could do.
It could only be used by one object at a time, which was a good thing, as a number speaking at once would have caused great confusion.
The goblin laid the tongue upon the cask, in which lay a quantity of old newspapers.
"Is it really true," he asked, that you do not know what poetry is?"
"Of course I know," replied the cask: "poetry is something that always stand in the corner of a newspaper, and is sometimes cut out; and I may venture to affirm that I have more of it in me than the student has, and I am only a poor tub of the huckster's."
Then the goblin placed the tongue on the coffee mill; and how it did go to be sure!
Then he put it on the butter tub and the cash box, and they all expressed the same opinion as the waste-paper tub; and a majority must always be respected.
"Now I shall go and tell the student," said the goblin; and with these words he went quietly up the back stairs to the garret where the student lived.
He had a candle burning still, and the goblin peeped through the keyhole and saw that he was reading in the torn book, which he had brought out of the shop.
But how light the room was!
From the book shot forth a ray of light which grew broad and full, like the stem of a tree, from which bright rays spread upward and over the student's head.
Each leaf was fresh, and each flower was like a beautiful female head; some with dark and sparkling eyes, and others with eyes that were wonderfully blue and clear.
The fruit gleamed like stars, and the room was filled with sounds of beautiful music.
The little goblin had never imagined, much less seen or heard of, any sight so glorious as this.
He stood still on tiptoe, peeping in, till the light went out in the garret.
The student no doubt had blown out his candle and gone to bed; but the little goblin remained standing there nevertheless, and listening to the music which still sounded on, soft and beautiful, a sweet cradle-song for the student, who had lain down to rest."
"This is a wonderful place," said the goblin; "I never expected such a thing.
I should like to stay here with the student;" and the little man thought it over, for he was a sensible little spirit.
At last he sighed, "but the student has no jam!"
So he went down stairs again into the huckster's shop, and it was a good thing he got back when he did, for the cask had almost worn out the lady's tongue; he had given a description of all that he contained on one side, and was just about to turn himself over to the other side to describe what was there, when the goblin entered and restored the tongue to the lady.
But from that time forward, the whole shop, from the cash box down to the pinewood logs, formed their opinions from that of the cask; and they all had such confidence in him, and treated him with so much respect, that when the huckster read the criticisms on theatricals and art of an evening, they fancied it must all come from the cask.
But after what he had seen, the goblin could no longer sit and listen quietly to the wisdom and understanding down stairs; so, as soon as the evening light glimmered in the garret, he took courage, for it seemed to him as if the rays of light were strong cables, drawing him up, and obliging him to go and peep through the keyhole; and, while there, a feeling of vastness came over him such as we experience by the ever-moving sea, when the storm breaks forth; and it brought tears into his eyes.
He did not himself know why he wept, yet a kind of pleasant feeling mingled with his tears.
"How wonderfully glorious it would be to sit with the student under such a tree;" but that was out of the question, he must be content to look through the keyhole, and be thankful for even that.
There he stood on the old landing, with the autumn wind blowing down upon him through the trap-door.
It was very cold; but the little creature did not really feel it, till the light in the garret went out, and the tones of music died away.
Then how he shivered, and crept down stairs again to his warm corner, where it felt home-like and comfortable.
And when Christmas came again, and brought the dish of jam and the great lump of butter, he liked the huckster best of all.
Soon after, in the middle of the night, the goblin was awoke by a terrible noise and knocking against the window shutters and the house doors, and by the sound of the watchman's horn; for a great fire had broken out, and the whole street appeared full of flames.
Was it in their house, or a neighbor's?
No one could tell, for terror had seized upon all.
The huckster's wife was so bewildered that she took her gold ear-rings out of her ears and put them in her pocket, that she might save something at least.
The huckster ran to get his business papers, and the servant resolved to save her blue silk mantle, which she had managed to buy.
Each wished to keep the best things they had.
The goblin had the same wish; for, with one spring, he was up stairs and in the student's room, whom he found standing by the open window, and looking quite calmly at the fire, which was raging at the house of a neighbor opposite.
The goblin caught up the wonderful book which lay on the table, and popped it into his red cap, which he held tightly with both hands.
The greatest treasure in the house was saved; and he ran away with it to the roof, and seated himself on the chimney.
The flames of the burning house opposite illuminated him as he sat, both hands pressed tightly over his cap, in which the treasure lay; and then he found out what feelings really reigned in his heart, and knew exactly which way they tended.
And yet, when the fire was extinguished, and the goblin again began to reflect, he hesitated, and said at last, "I must divide myself between the two; I cannot quite give up the huckster, because of the jam."
And this is a representation of human nature.
We are like the goblin; we all go to visit the huckster "because of the jam."
THE drummer's wife went into the church.
She saw the new altar with the painted pictures and the carved angels.
Those upon the canvas and in the glory over the altar were just as beautiful as the carved ones; and they were painted and gilt into the bargain.
Their hair gleamed golden in the sunshine, lovely to behold; but the real sunshine was more beautiful still.
It shone redder, clearer through the dark trees, when the sun went down.
It was lovely thus to look at the sunshine of heaven.
And she looked at the red sun, and she thought about it so deeply, and thought of the little one whom the stork was to bring, and the wife of the drummer was very cheerful, and looked and looked, and wished that the child might have a gleam of sunshine given to it, so that it might at least become like one of the shining angels over the altar.
And when she really had the little child in her arms, and held it up to its father, then it was like one of the angels in the church to behold, with hair like gold- the gleam of the setting sun was upon it.
"My golden treasure, my riches, my sunshine!" said the mother; and she kissed the shining locks, and it sounded like music and song in the room of the drummer; and there was joy, and life, and movement.
The drummer beat a roll- a roll of joy.
And the Drum said- the Fire-drum, that was beaten when there was a fire in the town: "Red hair! the little fellow has red hair!
Believe the drum, and not what your mother says!
Rub-a dub, rub-a dub!"
And the town repeated what the Fire-drum had said.
The boy was taken to church, the boy was christened.
There was nothing much to be said about his name; he was called Peter.
The whole town, and the Drum too, called him Peter the drummer's boy with the red hair; but his mother kissed his red hair, and called him her golden treasure.
In the hollow way in the clayey bank, many had scratched their names as a remembrance.
"Celebrity is always something!" said the drummer; and so he scratched his own name there, and his little son's name likewise.
And the swallows came.
They had, on their long journey, seen more durable characters engraven on rocks, and on the walls of the temples in Hindostan, mighty deeds of great kings, immortal names, so old that no one now could read or speak them.
Remarkable celebrity!
In the clayey bank the martens built their nest.
They bored holes in the deep declivity, and the splashing rain and the thin mist came and crumbled and washed the names away, and the drummer's name also, and that of his little son.
"Peter's name will last a full year and a half longer!" said the father.
"Fool!" thought the Fire-drum; but it only said, "Dub, dub, dub, rub-a-dub!"
He was a boy full of life and gladness, this drummer's son with the red hair.
He had a lovely voice.
He could sing, and he sang like a bird in the woodland.
There was melody, and yet no melody.
"He must become a chorister boy," said his mother.
"He shall sing in the church, and stand among the beautiful gilded angels who are like him!"
"Fiery cat!" said some of the witty ones of the town.
The Drum heard that from the neighbors' wives.
"Don't go home, Peter," cried the street boys.
"If you sleep in the garret, there'll be a fire in the house, and the fire-drum will have to be beaten."
"Look out for the drumsticks," replied Peter; and, small as he was, he ran up boldly, and gave the foremost such a punch in the body with his fist, that the fellow lost his legs and tumbled over, and the others took their legs off with themselves very rapidly.
The town musician was very genteel and fine.
He was the son of the royal plate-washer.
He was very fond of Peter, and would sometimes take him to his home; and he gave him a violin, and taught him to play it.
It seemed as if the whole art lay in the boy's fingers; and he wanted to be more than a drummer- he wanted to become musician to the town.
"I'll be a soldier," said Peter; for he was still quite a little lad, and it seemed to him the finest thing in the world to carry a gun, and to be able to march one, two- one, two, and to wear a uniform and a sword.
"Ah, you learn to long for the drum-skin, drum, dum, dum!" said the Drum.
"Yes, if he could only march his way up to be a general!" observed his father; "but before he can do that, there must be war."
"Heaven forbid!" said his mother.
"We have nothing to lose," remarked the father.
"Yes, we have my boy," she retorted.
"But suppose he came back a general!" said the father.
"Without arms and legs!" cried the mother.
"No, I would rather keep my golden treasure with me."
"Drum, dum, dum!"
The Fire-drum and all the other drums were beating, for war had come.
The soldiers all set out, and the son of the drummer followed them.
"Red-head. Golden treasure!"
The mother wept; the father in fancy saw him "famous;" the town musician was of opinion that he ought not to go to war, but should stay at home and learn music.
"Red-head," said the soldiers, and little Peter laughed; but when one of them sometimes said to another, "Foxey," he would bite his teeth together and look another way- into the wide world.
He did not care for the nickname.
The boy was active, pleasant of speech, and good-humored; that is the best canteen, said his old comrades.
And many a night he had to sleep under the open sky, wet through with the driving rain or the falling mist; but his good humor never forsook him.
The drum-sticks sounded, "Rub-a-dub, all up, all up!"
Yes, he was certainly born to be a drummer.
The day of battle dawned.
The sun had not yet risen, but the morning was come.
The air was cold, the battle was hot; there was mist in the air, but still more gunpowder-smoke.
The bullets and shells flew over the soldiers' heads, and into their heads- into their bodies and limbs; but still they pressed forward.
Here or there one or other of them would sink on his knees, with bleeding temples and a face as white as chalk.
The little drummer still kept his healthy color; he had suffered no damage; he looked cheerfully at the dog of the regiment, which was jumping along as merrily as if the whole thing had been got up for his amusement, and as if the bullets were only flying about that he might have a game of play with them.
"March!
Forward!
March!"
This, was the word of command for the drum.
The word had not yet been given to fall back, though they might have done so, and perhaps there would have been much sense in it; and now at last the word "Retire" was given; but our little drummer beat "Forward! march!" for he had understood the command thus, and the soldiers obeyed the sound of the drum.
That was a good roll, and proved the summons to victory for the men, who had already begun to give way.
Life and limb were lost in the battle.
Bombshells tore away the flesh in red strips; bombshells lit up into a terrible glow the strawheaps to which the wounded had dragged themselves, to lie untended for many hours, perhaps for all the hours they had to live.
It's no use thinking of it; and yet one cannot help thinking of it, even far away in the peaceful town.
The drummer and his wife also thought of it, for Peter was at the war.
"Now, I'm tired of these complaints," said the Fire-drum.
Again the day of battle dawned; the sun had not yet risen, but it was morning.
The drummer and his wife were asleep.
They had been talking about their son, as, indeed, they did almost every night, for he was out yonder in God's hand.
And the father dreamt that the war was over, that the soldiers had returned home, and that Peter wore a silver cross on his breast.
But the mother dreamt that she had gone into the church, and had seen the painted pictures and the carved angels with the gilded hair, and her own dear boy, the golden treasure of her heart, who was standing among the angels in white robes, singing so sweetly, as surely only the angels can sing; and that he had soared up with them into the sunshine, and nodded so kindly at his mother.
"My golden treasure!" she cried out; and she awoke.
"Now the good God has taken him to Himself!"
She folded her hands, and hid her face in the cotton curtains of the bed, and wept.
"Where does he rest now? among the many in the big grave that they have dug for the dead?
Perhaps he's in the water in the marsh!
Nobody knows his grave; no holy words have been read over it!"
And the Lord's Prayer went inaudibly over her lips; she bowed her head, and was so weary that she went to sleep.
And the days went by, in life as in dreams!
It was evening.
Over the battle-field a rainbow spread, which touched the forest and the deep marsh.
It has been said, and is preserved in popular belief, that where the rainbow touches the earth a treasure lies buried, a golden treasure; and here there was one.
No one but his mother thought of the little drummer, and therefore she dreamt of him.
And the days went by, in life as in dreams!
Not a hair of his head had been hurt, not a golden hair.
"Drum-ma-rum! drum-ma-rum! there he is!" the Drum might have said, and his mother might have sung, if she had seen or dreamt it.
With hurrah and song, adorned with green wreaths of victory, they came home, as the war was at an end, and peace had been signed.
The dog of the regiment sprang on in front with large bounds, and made the way three times as long for himself as it really was.
And days and weeks went by, and Peter came into his parents' room.
He was as brown as a wild man, and his eyes were bright, and his face beamed like sunshine.
And his mother held him in her arms; she kissed his lips, his forehead, and his red hair.
She had her boy back again; he had not a silver cross on his breast, as his father had dreamt, but he had sound limbs, a thing the mother had not dreamt.
And what a rejoicing was there!
They laughed and they wept; and Peter embraced the old Fire-drum.
"There stands the old skeleton still!" he said.
And the father beat a roll upon it.
"One would think that a great fire had broken out here," said the Fire-drum.
"Bright day! fire in the heart! golden treasure! skrat! skr-r-at! skr-r-r-r-at!"
And what then?
What then!- Ask the town musician.
"Peter's far outgrowing the drum," he said.
"Peter will be greater than I."
And yet he was the son of a royal plate-washer; but all that he had learned in half a lifetime, Peter learned in half a year.
There was something so merry about him, something so truly kind-hearted.
His eyes gleamed, and his hair gleamed too- there was no denying that!
"He ought to have his hair dyed," said the neighbor's wife.
"That answered capitally with the policeman's daughter, and she got a husband."
"But her hair turned as green as duckweed, and was always having to be colored up."
"She knows how to manage for herself," said the neighbors, "and so can Peter.
He comes to the most genteel houses, even to the burgomaster's where he gives Miss Charlotte piano-forte lessons."
He could play!
He could play, fresh out of his heart, the most charming pieces, that had never been put upon music-paper.
He played in the bright nights, and in the dark nights, too.
The neighbors declared it was unbearable, and the Fire-drum was of the same opinion.
He played until his thoughts soared up, and burst forth in great plans for the future: "To be famous!"
And burgomaster's Charlotte sat at the piano.
Her delicate fingers danced over the keys, and made them ring into Peter's heart.
It seemed too much for him to bear; and this happened not once, but many times; and at last one day he seized the delicate fingers and the white hand, and kissed it, and looked into her great brown eyes.
Heaven knows what he said; but we may be allowed to guess at it.
Charlotte blushed to guess at it.
She reddened from brow to neck, and answered not a single word; and then strangers came into the room, and one of them was the state councillor's son.
He had a lofty white forehead, and carried it so high that it seemed to go back into his neck.
And Peter sat by her a long time, and she looked at him with gentle eyes.
At home that evening he spoke of travel in the wide world, and of the golden treasure that lay hidden for him in his violin.
"To be famous!"
"Tum-me-lum, tum-me-lum, tum-me-lum!" said the Fire-drum.
"Peter has gone clear out of his wits.
I think there must be a fire in the house."
Next day the mother went to market.
"Shall I tell you news, Peter?" she asked when she came home.
"A capital piece of news.
Burgomaster's Charlotte has engaged herself to the state councillor's son; the betrothal took place yesterday evening."
"No!" cried Peter, and he sprang up from his chair.
But his mother persisted in saying "Yes."
She had heard it from the baker's wife, whose husband had it from the burgomaster's own mouth And Peter became as pale as death, and sat down again.
"Good Heaven! what's the matter with you?" asked his mother.
"Nothing, nothing; only leave me to myself," he answered but the tears were running down his cheeks.
"My sweet child, my golden treasure!" cried the mother, and she wept; but the Fire-drum sang, not out loud, but inwardly.
"Charlotte's gone!
Charlotte's gone! and now the song is done."
But the song was not done; there were many more verses in it, long verses, the most beautiful verses, the golden treasures of a life.
"She behaves like a mad woman," said the neighbor's wife.
"All the world is to see the letters she gets from her golden treasure, and to read the words that are written in the papers about his violin playing.
And he sends her money too, and that's very useful to her since she has been a widow."
"He plays before emperors and kings," said the town musician.
"I never had that fortune, but he's my pupil, and he does not forget his old master."
And his mother said, "His father dreamt that Peter came home from the war with a silver cross.
He did not gain one in the war, but it is still more difficult to gain one in this way.
Now he has the cross of honor.
If his father had only lived to see it!"
"He's grown famous!" said the Fire-drum, and all his native town said the same thing, for the drummer's son, Peter with the red hair- Peter whom they had known as a little boy, running about in wooden shoes, and then as a drummer, playing for the dancers- was become famous!
"He played at our house before he played in the presence of kings," said the burgomaster's wife.
"At that time he was quite smitten with Charlotte.
He was always of an aspiring turn.
At that time he was saucy and an enthusiast.
My husband laughed when he heard of the foolish affair, and now our Charlotte is a state councillor's wife."
A golden treasure had been hidden in the heart and soul of the poor child, who had beaten the roll as a drummer- a roll of victory for those who had been ready to retreat.
There was a golden treasure in his bosom, the power of sound; it burst forth on his violin as if the instrument had been a complete organ, and as if all the elves of a midsummer night were dancing across the strings.
In its sounds were heard the piping of the thrush and the full clear note of the human voice; therefore the sound brought rapture to every heart, and carried his name triumphant through the land.
That was a great firebrand- the firebrand of inspiration.
"And then he looks so splendid!" said the young ladies and the old ladies too; and the oldest of all procured an album for famous locks of hair, wholly and solely that she might beg a lock of his rich splendid hair, that treasure, that golden treasure.
And the son came into the poor room of the drummer, elegant as a prince, happier than a king.
His eyes were as clear and his face was as radiant as sunshine; and he held his mother in his arms, and she kissed his mouth, and wept as blissfully as any one can weep for joy; and he nodded at every old piece of furniture in the room, at the cupboard with the tea-cups, and at the flower-vase.
He nodded at the sleeping-bench, where he had slept as a little boy; but the old Fire-drum he brought out, and dragged it into the middle of the room, and said to it and to his mother: "My father would have beaten a famous roll this evening.
Now I must do it!"
And he beat a thundering roll-call on the instrument, and the Drum felt so highly honored that the parchment burst with exultation.
"He has a splendid touch!" said the Drum.
"I've a remembrance of him now that will last.
I expect that the same thing will happen to his mother, from pure joy over her golden treasure."
And this is the story of the Golden Treasure.
IN a house in Copenhagen, not far from the king's new market, a very large party had assembled, the host and his family expecting, no doubt, to receive invitations in return.
One half of the company were already seated at the card-tables, the other half seemed to be waiting the result of their hostess's question, "Well, how shall we amuse ourselves?"
Conversation followed, which, after a while, began to prove very entertaining.
Among other subjects, it turned upon the events of the middle ages, which some persons maintained were more full of interest than our own times.
Counsellor Knapp defended this opinion so warmly that the lady of the house immediately went over to his side, and both exclaimed against Oersted's Essays on Ancient and Modern Times, in which the preference is given to our own.
The counsellor considered the times of the Danish king, Hans, as the noblest and happiest.
The conversation on this topic was only interrupted for a moment by the arrival of a newspaper, which did not, however, contain much worth reading, and while it is still going on we will pay a visit to the ante-room, in which cloaks, sticks, and goloshes were carefully placed.
Here sat two maidens, one young, and the other old, as if they had come and were waiting to accompany their mistresses home; but on looking at them more closely, it could easily be seen that they were no common servants.
Their shapes were too graceful, their complexions too delicate, and the cut of their dresses much too elegant.
They were two fairies.
The younger was not Fortune herself, but the chambermaid of one of Fortune's attendants, who carries about her more trifling gifts.
The elder one, who was named Care, looked rather gloomy; she always goes about to perform her own business in person; for then she knows it is properly done.
They were telling each other where they had been during the day.
The messenger of Fortune had only transacted a few unimportant matters; for instance, she had preserved a new bonnet from a shower of rain, and obtained for an honest man a bow from a titled nobody, and so on; but she had something extraordinary to relate, after all.
"I must tell you," said she, "that to-day is my birthday; and in honor of it I have been intrusted with a pair of goloshes, to introduce amongst mankind.
These goloshes have the property of making every one who puts them on imagine himself in any place he wishes, or that he exists at any period.
Every wish is fulfilled at the moment it is expressed, so that for once mankind have the chance of being happy."
No," replied Care; "you may depend upon it that whoever puts on those goloshes will be very unhappy, and bless the moment in which he can get rid of them."
"What are you thinking of?" replied the other.
"Now see; I will place them by the door; some one will take them instead of his own, and he will be the happy man."
This was the end of their conversation.
COUNSELLOR WHAT HAPPENED TO THE COUNSELLOR
IT was late when Counsellor Knapp, lost in thought about the times of King Hans, desired to return home; and fate so ordered it that he put on the goloshes of Fortune instead of his own, and walked out into the East Street.
Through the magic power of the goloshes, he was at once carried back three hundred years, to the times of King Hans, for which he had been longing when he put them on.
Therefore he immediately set his foot into the mud and mire of the street, which in those days possessed no pavement.
"Why, this is horrible; how dreadfully dirty it is!" said the counsellor; and the whole pavement has vanished, and the lamps are all out."
The moon had not yet risen high enough to penetrate the thick foggy air, and all the objects around him were confused together in the darkness.
At the nearest corner, a lamp hung before a picture of the Madonna; but the light it gave was almost useless, for he only perceived it when he came quite close and his eyes fell on the painted figures of the Mother and Child.
"That is most likely a museum of art," thought he, "and they have forgotten to take down the sign."
Two men, in the dress of olden times, passed by him.
"What odd figures!" thought he; "they must be returning from some masquerade."
Suddenly he heard the sound of a drum and fifes, and then a blazing light from torches shone upon him.
The counsellor stared with astonishment as he beheld a most strange procession pass before him.
First came a whole troop of drummers, beating their drums very cleverly; they were followed by life-guards, with longbows and crossbows.
The principal person in the procession was a clerical-looking gentleman.
The astonished counsellor asked what it all meant, and who the gentleman might be.
"That is the bishop of Zealand."
"Good gracious!" he exclaimed; "what in the world has happened to the bishop? what can he be thinking about?"
Then he shook his head and said, "It cannot possibly be the bishop himself."
While musing on this strange affair, and without looking to the right or left, he walked on through East Street and over Highbridge Place.
The bridge, which he supposed led to Palace Square, was nowhere to be found; but instead, he saw a bank and some shallow water, and two people, who sat in a boat.
"Does the gentleman wish to be ferried over the Holm?" asked one.
"To the Holm!" exclaimed the counsellor, not knowing in what age he was now existing; "I want to go to Christian's Haven, in Little Turf Street."
The men stared at him.
"Pray tell me where the bridge is!" said he.
"It is shameful that the lamps are not lighted here, and it is as muddy as if one were walking in a marsh."
But the more he talked with the boatmen the less they could understand each other.
"I don't understand your outlandish talk," he cried at last, angrily turning his back upon them.
He could not, however, find the bridge nor any railings.
"What a scandalous condition this place is in," said he; never, certainly, had he found his own times so miserable as on this evening.
"I think it will be better for me to take a coach; but where are they?"
There was not one to be seen!
"I shall be obliged to go back to the king's new market," said he, "where there are plenty of carriages standing, or I shall never reach Christian's Haven."
Then he went towards East Street, and had nearly passed through it, when the moon burst forth from a cloud.
"Dear me, what have they been erecting here?" he cried, as he caught sight of the East gate, which in olden times used to stand at the end of East Street.
However, he found an opening through which he passed, and came out upon where he expected to find the new market.
Nothing was to be seen but an open meadow, surrounded by a few bushes, through which ran a broad canal or stream.
A few miserable-looking wooden booths, for the accommodation of Dutch watermen, stood on the opposite shore.
"Either I behold a fata morgana, or I must be tipsy," groaned the counsellor.
"What can it be?
What is the matter with me?"
He turned back in the full conviction that he must be ill.
In walking through the street this time, he examined the houses more closely; he found that most of them were built of lath and plaster, and many had only a thatched roof.
"I am certainly all wrong," said he, with a sigh; and yet I only drank one glass of punch.
But I cannot bear even that, and it was very foolish to give us punch and hot salmon; I shall speak about it to our hostess, the agent's lady.
Suppose I were to go back now and say how ill I feel, I fear it would look so ridiculous, and it is not very likely that I should find any one up."
Then he looked for the house, but it was not in existence.
"This is really frightful; I cannot even recognize East Street.
Not a shop to be seen; nothing but old, wretched, tumble-down houses, just as if I were at Roeskilde or Ringstedt.
Oh, I really must be ill!
It is no use to stand upon ceremony.
But where in the world is the agent's house.
There is a house, but it is not his; and people still up in it, I can hear.
Oh dear!
I certainly am very queer."
As he reached the half-open door, he saw a light and went in.
It was a tavern of the olden times, and seemed a kind of beershop.
The room had the appearance of a Dutch interior.
A number of people, consisting of seamen, Copenhagen citizens, and a few scholars, sat in deep conversation over their mugs, and took very little notice of the new comer.
"Pardon me," said the counsellor, addressing the landlady, "I do not feel quite well, and I should be much obliged if you will send for a fly to take me to Christian's Haven."
The woman stared at him and shook her head.
Then she spoke to him in German.
The counsellor supposed from this that she did not understand Danish; he therefore repeated his request in German.
This, as well as his singular dress, convinced the woman that he was a foreigner.
She soon understood, however, that he did not find himself quite well, and therefore brought him a mug of water.
It had something of the taste of seawater, certainly, although it had been drawn from the well outside.
Then the counsellor leaned his head on his hand, drew a deep breath, and pondered over all the strange things that had happened to him.
"Is that to-day's number of the Day?" he asked, quite mechanically, as he saw the woman putting by a large piece of paper.
She did not understand what he meant, but she handed him the sheet; it was a woodcut, representing a meteor, which had appeared in the town of Cologne.
"That is very old," said the counsellor, becoming quite cheerful at the sight of this antique drawing.
"Where did you get this singular sheet?
It is very interesting, although the whole affair is a fable.
Meteors are easily explained in these days; they are northern lights, which are often seen, and are no doubt caused by electricity."
Those who sat near him, and heard what he said, looked at him in great astonishment, and one of them rose, took off his hat respectfully, and said in a very serious manner, "You must certainly be a very learned man, monsieur."
"Oh no," replied the counsellor; "I can only discourse on topics which every one should understand."
"Modestia is a beautiful virtue," said the man.
"Moreover, I must add to your speech mihi secus videtur; yet in this case I would suspend my judicium."
"May I ask to whom I have the pleasure of speaking?"
"I am a Bachelor of Divinity," said the man.
This answer satisfied the counsellor.
The title agreed with the dress.
"This is surely," thought he, "an old village schoolmaster, a perfect original, such as one meets with sometimes even in Jutland."
"This is not certainly a locus docendi," began the man; "still I must beg you to continue the conversation.
You must be well read in ancient lore."
"Oh yes," replied the counsellor; "I am very fond of reading useful old books, and modern ones as well, with the exception of every-day stories, of which we really have more than enough.
"Every-day stories?" asked the bachelor.
"Yes, I mean the new novels that we have at the present day."
"Oh," replied the man, with a smile; "and yet they are very witty, and are much read at Court.
The king likes especially the romance of Messeurs Iffven and Gaudian, which describes King Arthur and his knights of the round table.
He has joked about it with the gentlemen of his Court."
"Well, I have certainly not read that," replied the counsellor.
"I suppose it is quite new, and published by Heiberg."
"No," answered the man, "it is not by Heiberg; Godfred von Gehman brought it out."
"Oh, is he the publisher?
That is a very old name," said the counsellor; "was it not the name of the first publisher in Denmark?"
"Yes; and he is our first printer and publisher now," replied the scholar.
So far all had passed off very well; but now one of the citizens began to speak of a terrible pestilence which had been raging a few years before, meaning the plague of 1484.
The counsellor thought he referred to the cholera, and they could discuss this without finding out the mistake.
The war in 1490 was spoken of as quite recent.
The English pirates had taken some ships in the Channel in 1801, and the counsellor, supposing they referred to these, agreed with them in finding fault with the English.
The rest of the talk, however, was not so agreeable; every moment one contradicted the other.
The good bachelor appeared very ignorant, for the simplest remark of the counsellor seemed to him either too bold or too fantastic.
They stared at each other, and when it became worse the bachelor spoke in Latin, in the hope of being better understood; but it was all useless.
"How are you now?" asked the landlady, pulling the counsellor's sleeve.
Then his recollection returned to him.
In the course of conversation he had forgotten all that had happened previously.
"Goodness me! where am I?" said he.
It bewildered him as he thought of it.
"We will have some claret, or mead, or Bremen beer," said one of the guests; "will you drink with us?"
Two maids came in.
One of them had a cap on her head of two colors.
They poured out the wine, bowed their heads, and withdrew.
The counsellor felt a cold shiver run all over him.
"What is this? what does it mean?" said he; but he was obliged to drink with them, for they overpowered the good man with their politeness.
He became at last desperate; and when one of them said he was tipsy, he did not doubt the man's word in the least- only begged them to get a droschky; and then they thought he was speaking the Muscovite language.
Never before had he been in such rough and vulgar company.
"One might believe that the country was going back to heathenism," he observed.
"This is the most terrible moment of my life."
Just then it came into his mind that he would stoop under the table, and so creep to the door.
He tried it; but before he reached the entry, the rest discovered what he was about, and seized him by the feet, when, luckily for him, off came the goloshes, and with them vanished the whole enchantment.
The counsellor now saw quite plainly a lamp, and a large building behind it; everything looked familiar and beautiful.
He was in East Street, as it now appears; he lay with his legs turned towards a porch, and just by him sat the watchman asleep.
"Is it possible that I have been lying here in the street dreaming?" said he.
"Yes, this is East Street; how beautifully bright and gay it looks!
It is quite shocking that one glass of punch should have upset me like this."
Two minutes afterwards he sat in a droschky, which was to drive him to Christian's Haven.
He thought of all the terror and anxiety which he had undergone, and felt thankful from his heart for the reality and comfort of modern times, which, with all their errors, were far better than those in which he so lately found himself.
THE WATCHMAN'S ADVENTURES
"Well, I declare, there lies a pair of goloshes," said the watchman.
"No doubt, they belong to the lieutenant who lives up stairs.
They are lying just by his door."
Gladly would the honest man have rung, and given them in, for a light was still burning, but he did not wish to disturb the other people in the house; so he let them lie.
"These things must keep the feet very warm," said he; "they are of such nice soft leather."
Then he tried them on, and they fitted his feet exactly.
"Now," said he, "how droll things are in this world!
There's that man can lie down in his warm bed, but he does not do so.
There he goes pacing up and down the room.
He ought to be a happy man.
He has neither wife nor children, and he goes out into company every evening.
Oh, I wish I were he; then I should be a happy man."
As he uttered this wish, the goloshes which he had put on took effect, and the watchman at once became the lieutenant.
There he stood in his room, holding a little piece of pink paper between his fingers, on which was a poem,- a poem written by the lieutenant himself.
Who has not had, for once in his life, a moment of poetic inspiration? and at such a moment, if the thoughts are written down, they flow in poetry.
The following verses were written on the pink paper:-
"OH WERE I RICH!
"Oh were I rich!
How oft, in youth's bright hour, When youthful pleasures banish every care, I longed for riches but to gain a power, The sword and plume and uniform to wear!
The riches and the honor came for me; Yet still my greatest wealth was poverty: Ah, help and pity me!
"Once in my youthful hours, when gay and free, A maiden loved me; and her gentle kiss, Rich in its tender love and purity, Taught me, alas! too much of earthly bliss.
Dear child!
She only thought of youthful glee; She loved no wealth, but fairy tales and me.
Thou knowest: ah, pity me!
"Oh were I rich! again is all my prayer: That child is now a woman, fair and free, As good and beautiful as angels are.
Oh, were I rich in lovers' poetry, To tell my fairy tale, love's richest lore!
But no; I must be silent- I am poor.
Ah, wilt thou pity me?
"Oh were I rich in truth and peace below, I need not then my poverty bewail.
To thee I dedicate these lines of woe; Wilt thou not understand the mournful tale?
A leaf on which my sorrows I relate- Dark story of a darker night of fate.
Ah, bless and pity me!"
"Well, yes; people write poems when they are in love, but a wise man will not print them.
A lieutenant in love, and poor.
This is a triangle, or more properly speaking, the half of the broken die of fortune."
The lieutenant felt this very keenly, and therefore leaned his head against the window-frame, and sighed deeply.
"The poor watchman in the street," said he, "is far happier than I am.
He knows not what I call poverty.
He has a home, a wife and children, who weep at his sorrow and rejoice at his joy.
Oh, how much happier I should be could I change my being and position with him, and pass through life with his humble expectations and hopes!
Yes, he is indeed happier than I am."
At this moment the watchman again became a watchman; for having, through the goloshes of Fortune, passed into the existence of the lieutenant, and found himself less contented than he expected, he had preferred his former condition, and wished himself again a watchman.
"That was an ugly dream," said he, "but droll enough.
It seemed to me as if I were the lieutenant up yonder, but there was no happiness for me.
I missed my wife and the little ones, who are always ready to smother me with kisses."
He sat down again and nodded, but he could not get the dream out of his thoughts, and he still had the goloshes on his feet.
A falling star gleamed across the sky.
"There goes one!" cried he.
"However, there are quite enough left; I should very much like to examine these a little nearer, especially the moon, for that could not slip away under one's hands.
The student, for whom my wife washes, says that when we die we shall fly from one star to another.
If that were true, it would be very delightful, but I don't believe it.
I wish I could make a little spring up there now; I would willingly let my body lie here on the steps."
There are certain things in the world which should be uttered very cautiously; doubly so when the speaker has on his feet the goloshes of Fortune.
Now we shall hear what happened to the watchman.
Nearly every one is acquainted with the great power of steam; we have proved it by the rapidity with which we can travel, both on a railroad or in a steamship across the sea.
But this speed is like the movements of the sloth, or the crawling march of the snail, when compared to the swiftness with which light travels; light flies nineteen million times faster than the fleetest race-horse, and electricity is more rapid still.
Death is an electric shock which we receive in our hearts, and on the wings of electricity the liberated soul flies away swiftly, the light from the sun travels to our earth ninety-five millions of miles in eight minutes and a few seconds; but on the wings of electricity, the mind requires only a second to accomplish the same distance.
The space between the heavenly bodies is, to thought, no farther than the distance which we may have to walk from one friend's house to another in the same town; yet this electric shock obliges us to use our bodies here below, unless, like the watchman, we have on the goloshes of Fortune.
In a very few seconds the watchman had travelled more than two hundred thousand miles to the moon, which is formed of a lighter material than our earth, and may be said to be as soft as new fallen snow.
He found himself on one of the circular range of mountains which we see represented in Dr. Madler's large map of the moon.
The interior had the appearance of a large hollow, bowl-shaped, with a depth about half a mile from the brim.
Within this hollow stood a large town; we may form some idea of its appearance by pouring the white of an egg into a glass of water.
The materials of which it was built seemed just as soft, and pictured forth cloudy turrets and sail-like terraces, quite transparent, and floating in the thin air.
Our earth hung over his head like a great dark red ball.
Presently he discovered a number of beings, which might certainly be called men, but were very different to ourselves.
A more fantastical imagination than Herschel's must have discovered these.
Had they been placed in groups, and painted, it might have been said, "What beautiful foliage!"
They had also a language of their own.
No one could have expected the soul of the watchman to understand it, and yet he did understand it, for our souls have much greater capabilities then we are inclined to believe.
Do we not, in our dreams, show a wonderful dramatic talent? each of our acquaintance appears to us then in his own character, and with his own voice; no man could thus imitate them in his waking hours.
How clearly, too, we are reminded of persons whom we have not seen for many years; they start up suddenly to the mind's eye with all their peculiarities as living realities.
In fact, this memory of the soul is a fearful thing; every sin, every sinful thought it can bring back, and we may well ask how we are to give account of "every idle word" that may have been whispered in the heart or uttered with the lips.
The spirit of the watchman therefore understood very well the language of the inhabitants of the moon.
They were disputing about our earth, and doubted whether it could be inhabited.
The atmosphere, they asserted, must be too dense for any inhabitants of the moon to exist there.
They maintained that the moon alone was inhabited, and was really the heavenly body in which the old world people lived.
They likewise talked politics.
But now we will descend to East Street, and see what happened to the watchman's body.
He sat lifeless on the steps.
His staff had fallen out of his hand, and his eyes stared at the moon, about which his honest soul was wandering.
"What is it o'clock, watchman?" inquired a passenger.
But there was no answer from the watchman.
The man then pulled his nose gently, which caused him to lose his balance.
The body fell forward, and lay at full length on the ground as one dead.
All his comrades were very much frightened, for he seemed quite dead; still they allowed him to remain after they had given notice of what had happened; and at dawn the body was carried to the hospital.
We might imagine it to be no jesting matter if the soul of the man should chance to return to him, for most probably it would seek for the body in East Street without being able to find it.
We might fancy the soul inquiring of the police, or at the address office, or among the missing parcels, and then at length finding it at the hospital.
But we may comfort ourselves by the certainty that the soul, when acting upon its own impulses, is wiser than we are; it is the body that makes it stupid.
As we have said, the watchman's body had been taken to the hospital, and here it was placed in a room to be washed.
Naturally, the first thing done here was to take off the goloshes, upon which the soul was instantly obliged to return, and it took the direct road to the body at once, and in a few seconds the man's life returned to him.
He declared, when he quite recovered himself, that this had been the most dreadful night he had ever passed; not for a hundred pounds would he go through such feelings again.
However, it was all over now.
The same day he was allowed to leave, but the goloshes remained at the hospital.
THE EVENTFUL MOMENT - A MOST UNUSUAL JOURNEY
Every inhabitant of Copenhagen knows what the entrance to Frederick's Hospital is like; but as most probably a few of those who read this little tale may not reside in Copenhagen, we will give a short description of it.
The hospital is separated from the street by an iron railing, in which the bars stand so wide apart that, it is said, some very slim patients have squeezed through, and gone to pay little visits in the town.
The most difficult part of the body to get through was the head; and in this case, as it often happens in the world, the small heads were the most fortunate.
This will serve as sufficient introduction to our tale.
One of the young volunteers, of whom, physically speaking, it might be said that he had a great head, was on guard that evening at the hospital.
The rain was pouring down, yet, in spite of these two obstacles, he wanted to go out just for a quarter of an hour; it was not worth while, he thought, to make a confidant of the porter, as he could easily slip through the iron railings.
There lay the goloshes, which the watchman had forgotten.
It never occurred to him that these could be goloshes of Fortune.
They would be very serviceable to him in this rainy weather, so he drew them on.
Now came the question whether he could squeeze through the palings; he certainly had never tried, so he stood looking at them.
"I wish to goodness my head was through," said he, and instantly, though it was so thick and large, it slipped through quite easily.
The goloshes answered that purpose very well, but his body had to follow, and this was impossible.
"I am too fat," he said; "I thought my head would be the worst, but I cannot get my body through, that is certain."
Then he tried to pull his head back again, but without success; he could move his neck about easily enough, and that was all.
His first feeling was one of anger, and then his spirits sank below zero.
The goloshes of Fortune had placed him in this terrible position, and unfortunately it never occurred to him to wish himself free.
No, instead of wishing he kept twisting about, yet did not stir from the spot.
The rain poured, and not a creature could be seen in the street.
The porter's bell he was unable to reach, and however was he to get loose!
He foresaw that he should have to stay there till morning, and then they must send for a smith to file away the iron bars, and that would be a work of time.
All the charity children would just be going to school: and all the sailors who inhabited that quarter of the town would be there to see him standing in the pillory.
What a crowd there would be.
"Ha," he cried, "the blood is rushing to my head, and I shall go mad.
I believe I am crazy already; oh, I wish I were free, then all these sensations would pass off."
This is just what he ought to have said at first.
The moment he had expressed the thought his head was free.
He started back, quite bewildered with the fright which the goloshes of Fortune had caused him.
But we must not suppose it was all over; no, indeed, there was worse to come yet.
The night passed, and the whole of the following day; but no one sent for the goloshes.
In the evening a declamatory performance was to take place at the amateur theatre in a distant street.
The house was crowded; among the audience was the young volunteer from the hospital, who seemed to have quite forgotten his adventures of the previous evening.
He had on the goloshes; they had not been sent for, and as the streets were still very dirty, they were of great service to him.
A new poem, entitled "My Aunt's Spectacles," was being recited.
It described these spectacles as possessing a wonderful power; if any one put them on in a large assembly the people appeared like cards, and the future events of ensuing years could be easily foretold by them.
The idea struck him that he should very much like to have such a pair of spectacles; for, if used rightly, they would perhaps enable him to see into the hearts of people, which he thought would be more interesting than to know what was going to happen next year; for future events would be sure to show themselves, but the hearts of people never.
"I can fancy what I should see in the whole row of ladies and gentlemen on the first seat, if I could only look into their hearts; that lady, I imagine, keeps a store for things of all descriptions; how my eyes would wander about in that collection; with many ladies I should no doubt find a large millinery establishment.
There is another that is perhaps empty, and would be all the better for cleaning out.
There may be some well stored with good articles.
Ah, yes," he sighed, "I know one, in which everything is solid, but a servant is there already, and that is the only thing against it.
I dare say from many I should hear the words, 'Please to walk in.'
I only wish I could slip into the hearts like a little tiny thought."
This was the word of command for the goloshes.
The volunteer shrunk up together, and commenced a most unusual journey through the hearts of the spectators in the first row.
The first heart he entered was that of a lady, but he thought he must have got into one of the rooms of an orthopedic institution where plaster casts of deformed limbs were hanging on the walls, with this difference, that the casts in the institution are formed when the patient enters, but here they were formed and preserved after the good people had left.
These were casts of the bodily and mental deformities of the lady's female friends carefully preserved.
Quickly he passed into another heart, which had the appearance of a spacious, holy church, with the white dove of innocence fluttering over the altar.
Gladly would he have fallen on his knees in such a sacred place; but he was carried on to another heart, still, however, listening to the tones of the organ, and feeling himself that he had become another and a better man.
The next heart was also a sanctuary, which he felt almost unworthy to enter; it represented a mean garret, in which lay a sick mother; but the warm sunshine streamed through the window, lovely roses bloomed in a little flowerbox on the roof, two blue birds sang of childlike joys, and the sick mother prayed for a blessing on her daughter.
Next he crept on his hands and knees through an overfilled butcher's shop; there was meat, nothing but meat, wherever he stepped; this was the heart of a rich, respectable man, whose name is doubtless in the directory.
Then he entered the heart of this man's wife; it was an old, tumble-down pigeon-house; the husband's portrait served as a weather-cock; it was connected with all the doors, which opened and shut just as the husband's decision turned.
The next heart was a complete cabinet of mirrors, such as can be seen in the Castle of Rosenberg.
But these mirrors magnified in an astonishing degree; in the middle of the floor sat, like the Grand Lama, the insignificant I of the owner, astonished at the contemplation of his own features.
At his next visit he fancied he must have got into a narrow needlecase, full of sharp needles: "Oh," thought he, "this must be the heart of an old maid;" but such was not the fact; it belonged to a young officer, who wore several orders, and was said to be a man of intellect and heart.
The poor volunteer came out of the last heart in the row quite bewildered.
He could not collect his thoughts, and imagined his foolish fancies had carried him away.
"Good gracious!" he sighed, "I must have a tendency to softening of the brain, and here it is so exceedingly hot that the blood is rushing to my head."
And then suddenly recurred to him the strange event of the evening before, when his head had been fixed between the iron railings in front of the hospital.
"That is the cause of it all!" he exclaimed, "I must do something in time.
A Russian bath would be a very good thing to begin with.
I wish I were lying on one of the highest shelves."
Sure enough, there he lay on an upper shelf of a vapor bath, still in his evening costume, with his boots and goloshes on, and the hot drops from the ceiling falling on his face.
"Ho!" he cried, jumping down and rushing towards the plunging bath.
The attendant stopped him with a loud cry, when he saw a man with all his clothes on.
The volunteer had, however, presence of mind enough to whisper, "It is for a wager;" but the first thing he did, when he reached his own room, was to put a large blister on his neck, and another on his back, that his crazy fit might be cured.
The next morning his back was very sore, which was all he gained by the goloshes of Fortune.
THE CLERK'S TRANSFORMATION
The watchman, whom we of course have not forgotten, thought, after a while, of the goloshes which he had found and taken to the hospital; so he went and fetched them.
But neither the lieutenant nor any one in the street could recognize them as their own, so he gave them up to the police.
"They look exactly like my own goloshes," said one of the clerks, examining the unknown articles, as they stood by the side of his own.
"It would require even more than the eye of a shoemaker to know one pair from the other."
"Master clerk," said a servant who entered with some papers.
The clerk turned and spoke to the man; but when he had done with him, he turned to look at the goloshes again, and now he was in greater doubt than ever as to whether the pair on the right or on the left belonged to him.
"Those that are wet must be mine," thought he; but he thought wrong, it was just the reverse.
The goloshes of Fortune were the wet pair; and, besides, why should not a clerk in a police office be wrong sometimes?
So he drew them on, thrust his papers into his pocket, placed a few manuscripts under his arm, which he had to take with him, and to make abstracts from at home.
Then, as it was Sunday morning and the weather very fine, he said to himself, "A walk to Fredericksburg will do me good:" so away he went.
There could not be a quieter or more steady young man than this clerk.
We will not grudge him this little walk, it was just the thing to do him good after sitting so much.
He went on at first like a mere automaton, without thought or wish; therefore the goloshes had no opportunity to display their magic power.
In the avenue he met with an acquaintance, one of our young poets, who told him that he intended to start on the following day on a summer excursion.
"Are you really going away so soon?" asked the clerk.
"What a free, happy man you are.
You can roam about where you will, while such as we are tied by the foot."
"But it is fastened to the bread-tree," replied the poet.
"You need have no anxiety for the morrow; and when you are old there is a pension for you."
"Ah, yes; but you have the best of it," said the clerk; "it must be so delightful to sit and write poetry.
The whole world makes itself agreeable to you, and then you are your own master.
You should try how you would like to listen to all the trivial things in a court of justice."
The poet shook his head, so also did the clerk; each retained his own opinion, and so they parted.
"They are strange people, these poets," thought the clerk.
"I should like to try what it is to have a poetic taste, and to become a poet myself.
I am sure I should not write such mournful verses as they do.
This is a splendid spring day for a poet, the air is so remarkably clear, the clouds are so beautiful, and the green grass has such a sweet smell.
For many years I have not felt as I do at this moment."
We perceive, by these remarks, that he had already become a poet.
By most poets what he had said would be considered common-place, or as the Germans call it, "insipid."
It is a foolish fancy to look upon poets as different to other men.
There are many who are more the poets of nature than those who are professed poets.
The difference is this, the poet's intellectual memory is better; he seizes upon an idea or a sentiment, until he can embody it, clearly and plainly in words, which the others cannot do.
But the transition from a character of every-day life to one of a more gifted nature is a great transition; and so the clerk became aware of the change after a time.
"What a delightful perfume," said he; "it reminds me of the violets at Aunt Lora's.
Ah, that was when I was a little boy.
Dear me, how long it seems since I thought of those days!
She was a good old maiden lady! she lived yonder, behind the Exchange.
She always had a sprig or a few blossoms in water, let the winter be ever so severe.
I could smell the violets, even while I was placing warm penny pieces against the frozen panes to make peep-holes, and a pretty view it was on which I peeped.
Out in the river lay the ships, icebound, and forsaken by their crews; a screaming crow represented the only living creature on board.
But when the breezes of spring came, everything started into life.
Amidst shouting and cheers the ships were tarred and rigged, and then they sailed to foreign lands.
"I remain here, and always shall remain, sitting at my post at the police office, and letting others take passports to distant lands.
Yes, this is my fate," and he sighed deeply.
Suddenly he paused.
"Good gracious, what has come over me?
I never felt before as I do now; it must be the air of spring.
It is overpowering, and yet it is delightful."
He felt in his pockets for some of his papers.
"These will give me something else to think of," said he.
Casting his eyes on the first page of one, he read, "'Mistress Sigbirth; an original Tragedy, in Five Acts.'
What is this?- in my own handwriting, too!
Have I written this tragedy?"
He read again, "'The Intrigue on the Promenade; or, the Fast-Day.
A Vaudeville.'
However did I get all this?
Some one must have put them into my pocket.
And here is a letter!"
It was from the manager of a theatre; the pieces were rejected, not at all in polite terms.
"Hem, hem!" said he, sitting down on a bench; his thoughts were very elastic, and his heart softened strangely.
Involuntarily he seized one of the nearest flowers; it was a little, simple daisy.
All that botanists can say in many lectures was explained in a moment by this little flower.
It spoke of the glory of its birth; it told of the strength of the sunlight, which had caused its delicate leaves to expand, and given to it such sweet perfume.
The struggles of life which arouse sensations in the bosom have their type in the tiny flowers.
Air and light are the lovers of the flowers, but light is the favored one; towards light it turns, and only when light vanishes does it fold its leaves together, and sleep in the embraces of the air."
"It is light that adorns me," said the flower.
"But the air gives you the breath of life," whispered the poet.
Just by him stood a boy, splashing with his stick in a marshy ditch.
The water-drops spurted up among the green twigs, and the clerk thought of the millions of animalculae which were thrown into the air with every drop of water, at a height which must be the same to them as it would be to us if we were hurled beyond the clouds.
As the clerk thought of all these things, and became conscious of the great change in his own feelings, he smiled, and said to himself, "I must be asleep and dreaming; and yet, if so, how wonderful for a dream to be so natural and real, and to know at the same time too that it is but a dream.
I hope I shall be able to remember it all when I wake tomorrow.
My sensations seem most unaccountable.
I have a clear perception of everything as if I were wide awake.
I am quite sure if I recollect all this tomorrow, it will appear utterly ridiculous and absurd.
I have had this happen to me before.
It is with the clever or wonderful things we say or hear in dreams, as with the gold which comes from under the earth, it is rich and beautiful when we possess it, but when seen in a true light it is but as stones and withered leaves."
"Ah!" he sighed mournfully, as he gazed at the birds singing merrily, or hopping from branch to branch, "they are much better off than I. Flying is a glorious power.
Happy is he who is born with wings.
Yes, if I could change myself into anything I would be a little lark."
At the same moment his coat-tails and sleeves grew together and formed wings, his clothes changed to feathers, and his goloshes to claws.
He felt what was taking place, and laughed to himself.
"Well, now it is evident I must be dreaming; but I never had such a wild dream as this."
And then he flew up into the green boughs and sang, but there was no poetry in the song, for his poetic nature had left him.
The goloshes, like all persons who wish to do a thing thoroughly, could only attend to one thing at a time.
He wished to be a poet, and he became one.
Then he wanted to be a little bird, and in this change he lost the characteristics of the former one.
"Well," thought he, "this is charming; by day I sit in a police-office, amongst the dryest law papers, and at night I can dream that I am a lark, flying about in the gardens of Fredericksburg.
Really a complete comedy could be written about it."
Then he flew down into the grass, turned his head about in every direction, and tapped his beak on the bending blades of grass, which, in proportion to his size, seemed to him as long as the palm-leaves in northern Africa.
In another moment all was darkness around him.
It seemed as if something immense had been thrown over him.
A sailor boy had flung his large cap over the bird, and a hand came underneath and caught the clerk by the back and wings so roughly, that he squeaked, and then cried out in his alarm, "You impudent rascal, I am a clerk in the police-office!" but it only sounded to the boy like "tweet, tweet;" so he tapped the bird on the beak, and walked away with him.
In the avenue he met two school-boys, who appeared to belong to a better class of society, but whose inferior abilities kept them in the lowest class at school.
These boys bought the bird for eightpence, and so the clerk returned to Copenhagen.
"It is well for me that I am dreaming," he thought; "otherwise I should become really angry.
First I was a poet, and now I am a lark.
It must have been the poetic nature that changed me into this little creature.
It is a miserable story indeed, especially now I have fallen into the hands of boys.
I wonder what will be the end of it."
The boys carried him into a very elegant room, where a stout, pleasant-looking lady received them, but she was not at all gratified to find that they had brought a lark- a common field-bird as she called it.
However, she allowed them for one day to place the bird in an empty cage that hung near the window.
"It will please Polly perhaps," she said, laughing at a large gray parrot, who was swinging himself proudly on a ring in a handsome brass cage.
"It is Polly's birthday," she added in a simpering tone, "and the little field-bird has come to offer his congratulations."
Polly did not answer a single word, he continued to swing proudly to and fro; but a beautiful canary, who had been brought from his own warm, fragrant fatherland, the summer previous, began to sing as loud as he could.
"You screamer!" said the lady, throwing a white handkerchief over the cage.
"Tweet, tweet," sighed he, "what a dreadful snowstorm!" and then he became silent.
The clerk, or as the lady called him the field-bird, was placed in a little cage close to the canary, and not far from the parrot.
The only human speech which Polly could utter, and which she sometimes chattered forth most comically, was "Now let us be men."
All besides was a scream, quite as unintelligible as the warbling of the canary-bird, excepting to the clerk, who being now a bird, could understand his comrades very well.
"I flew beneath green palm-trees, and amidst the blooming almond-trees," sang the canary.
"I flew with my brothers and sisters over beautiful flowers, and across the clear, bright sea, which reflected the waving foliage in its glittering depths; and I have seen many gay parrots, who could relate long and delightful stories.
"They were wild birds," answered the parrot, "and totally uneducated.
Now let us be men.
Why do you not laugh?
If the lady and her visitors can laugh at this, surely you can.
It is a great failing not to be able to appreciate what is amusing.
Now let us be men."
"Do you remember," said the canary, "the pretty maidens who used to dance in the tents that were spread out beneath the sweet blossoms?
Do you remember the delicious fruit and the cooling juice from the wild herbs?"
"Oh, yes," said the parrot; "but here I am much better off.
I am well fed, and treated politely.
I know that I have a clever head; and what more do I want?
Let us be men now.
You have a soul for poetry.
I have deep knowledge and wit.
You have genius, but no discretion.
You raise your naturally high notes so much, that you get covered over.
They never serve me so.
Oh, no; I cost them something more than you.
I keep them in order with my beak, and fling my wit about me.
Now let us be men.
"O my warm, blooming fatherland," sang the canary bird, "I will sing of thy dark-green trees and thy quiet streams, where the bending branches kiss the clear, smooth water.
I will sing of the joy of my brothers and sisters, as their shining plumage flits among the dark leaves of the plants which grow wild by the springs."
"Do leave off those dismal strains," said the parrot; "sing something to make us laugh; laughter is the sign of the highest order of intellect.
Can a dog or a horse laugh?
No, they can cry; but to man alone is the power of laughter given.
Ha! ha! ha!" laughed Polly, and repeated his witty saying, "Now let us be men."
"You little gray Danish bird," said the canary, "you also have become a prisoner.
It is certainly cold in your forests, but still there is liberty there.
Fly out! they have forgotten to close the cage, and the window is open at the top.
Fly, fly!"
Instinctively, the clerk obeyed, and left the cage; at the same moment the half-opened door leading into the next room creaked on its hinges, and, stealthily, with green fiery eyes, the cat crept in and chased the lark round the room.
The canary-bird fluttered in his cage, and the parrot flapped his wings and cried, "Let us be men;" the poor clerk, in the most deadly terror, flew through the window, over the houses, and through the streets, till at length he was obliged to seek a resting-place.
A house opposite to him had a look of home.
A window stood open; he flew in, and perched upon the table.
It was his own room.
"Let us be men now," said he, involuntarily imitating the parrot; and at the same moment he became a clerk again, only that he was sitting on the table.
"Heaven preserve us!" said he; "How did I get up here and fall asleep in this way?
It was an uneasy dream too that I had.
The whole affair appears most absurd.
THE BEST THING THE GOLOSHES DID
Early on the following morning, while the clerk was still in bed, his neighbor, a young divinity student, who lodged on the same storey, knocked at his door, and then walked in.
"Lend me your goloshes," said he; "it is so wet in the garden, but the sun is shining brightly.
I should like to go out there and smoke my pipe."
He put on the goloshes, and was soon in the garden, which contained only one plum-tree and one apple-tree; yet, in a town, even a small garden like this is a great advantage.
The student wandered up and down the path; it was just six o'clock, and he could hear the sound of the post-horn in the street.
"Oh, to travel, to travel!" cried he; "there is no greater happiness in the world: it is the height of my ambition.
This restless feeling would be stilled, if I could take a journey far away from this country.
I should like to see beautiful Switzerland, to travel through Italy, and,"- It was well for him that the goloshes acted immediately, otherwise he might have been carried too far for himself as well as for us.
In a moment he found himself in Switzerland, closely packed with eight others in the diligence.
His head ached, his back was stiff, and the blood had ceased to circulate, so that his feet were swelled and pinched by his boots.
He wavered in a condition between sleeping and waking.
In his right-hand pocket he had a letter of credit; in his left-hand pocket was his passport; and a few louis d'ors were sewn into a little leather bag which he carried in his breast-pocket.
Whenever he dozed, he dreamed that he had lost one or another of these possessions; then he would awake with a start, and the first movements of his hand formed a triangle from his right-hand pocket to his breast, and from his breast to his left-hand pocket, to feel whether they were all safe.
Umbrellas, sticks, and hats swung in the net before him, and almost obstructed the prospect, which was really very imposing; and as he glanced at it, his memory recalled the words of one poet at least, who has sung of Switzerland, and whose poems have not yet been printed:-
"How lovely to my wondering eyes Mont Blanc's fair summits gently rise; 'Tis sweet to breathe the mountain air,- If you have gold enough to spare."
Grand, dark, and gloomy appeared the landscape around him.
The pine-forests looked like little groups of moss on high rocks, whose summits were lost in clouds of mist.
Presently it began to snow, and the wind blew keen and cold.
"Ah," he sighed, "if I were only on the other side of the Alps now, it would be summer, and I should be able to get money on my letter of credit.
The anxiety I feel on this matter prevents me from enjoying myself in Switzerland.
Oh, I wish I was on the other side of the Alps."
And there, in a moment, he found himself, far away in the midst of Italy, between Florence and Rome, where the lake Thrasymene glittered in the evening sunlight like a sheet of molten gold between the dark blue mountains.
There, where Hannibal defeated Flaminius, the grape vines clung to each other with the friendly grasp of their green tendril fingers; while, by the wayside, lovely half-naked children were watching a herd of coal-black swine under the blossoms of fragrant laurel.
Could we rightly describe this picturesque scene, our readers would exclaim, "Delightful Italy!"
But neither the student nor either of his travelling companions felt the least inclination to think of it in this way.
Poisonous flies and gnats flew into the coach by thousands.
In vain they drove them away with a myrtle branch, the flies stung them notwithstanding.
There was not a man in the coach whose face was not swollen and disfigured with the stings.
The poor horses looked wretched; the flies settled on their backs in swarms, and they were only relieved when the coachmen got down and drove the creatures off.
As the sun set, an icy coldness filled all nature, not however of long duration.
It produced the feeling which we experience when we enter a vault at a funeral, on a summer's day; while the hills and the clouds put on that singular green hue which we often notice in old paintings, and look upon as unnatural until we have ourselves seen nature's coloring in the south.
It was a glorious spectacle; but the stomachs of the travellers were empty, their bodies exhausted with fatigue, and all the longings of their heart turned towards a resting-place for the night; but where to find one they knew not.
All the eyes were too eagerly seeking for this resting-place, to notice the beauties of nature.
The road passed through a grove of olive-trees; it reminded the student of the willow-trees at home.
Here stood a lonely inn, and close by it a number of crippled beggars had placed themselves; the brightest among them looked, to quote the words of Marryat, "like the eldest son of Famine who had just come of age."
The others were either blind, or had withered legs, which obliged them to creep about on their hands and knees, or they had shrivelled arms and hands without fingers.
It was indeed poverty arrayed in rags.
"Eccellenza, miserabili!" they exclaimed, stretching forth their diseased limbs.
The hostess received the travellers with bare feet, untidy hair, and a dirty blouse.
The doors were fastened together with string; the floors of the rooms were of brick, broken in many places; bats flew about under the roof; and as to the odor within- "Let us have supper laid in the stable," said one of the travellers; "then we shall know what we are breathing."
The windows were opened to let in a little fresh air, but quicker than air came in the withered arms and the continual whining sounds, "Miserabili, eccellenza.
On the walls were inscriptions, half of them against "la bella Italia."
The supper made its appearance at last.
It consisted of watery soup, seasoned with pepper and rancid oil.
This last delicacy played a principal part in the salad.
Musty eggs and roasted cocks'-combs were the best dishes on the table; even the wine had a strange taste, it was certainly a mixture.
At night, all the boxes were placed against the doors, and one of the travellers watched while the others slept.
The student's turn came to watch.
How close the air felt in that room; the heat overpowered him.
The gnats were buzzing about and stinging, while the miserabili, outside, moaned in their dreams.
"Travelling would be all very well," said the student of divinity to himself, "if we had no bodies, or if the body could rest while the soul if flying.
Wherever I go I feel a want which oppresses my heart, for something better presents itself at the moment; yes, something better, which shall be the best of all; but where is that to be found?
In fact, I know in my heart very well what I want.
I wish to attain the greatest of all happiness."
No sooner were the words spoken than he was at home.
Long white curtains shaded the windows of his room, and in the middle of the floor stood a black coffin, in which he now lay in the still sleep of death; his wish was fulfilled, his body was at rest, and his spirit travelling.
"Esteem no man happy until he is in his grave," were the words of Solon.
Here was a strong fresh proof of their truth.
Every corpse is a sphinx of immortality.
The sphinx in this sarcophagus might unveil its own mystery in the words which the living had himself written two days before-
"Stern death, thy chilling silence waketh dread; Yet in thy darkest hour there may be light.
Earth's garden reaper! from the grave's cold bed The soul on Jacob's ladder takes her flight.
Man's greatest sorrows often are a part Of hidden griefs, concealed from human eyes, Which press far heavier on the lonely heart Than now the earth that on his coffin lies."
Two figures were moving about the room; we know them both.
One was the fairy named Care, the other the messenger of Fortune.
They bent over the dead.
"Look!" said Care; "what happiness have your goloshes brought to mankind?"
"They have at least brought lasting happiness to him who slumbers here," she said.
"Not so," said Care, "he went away of himself, he was not summoned.
His mental powers were not strong enough to discern the treasures which he had been destined to discover.
I will do him a favor now."
And she drew the goloshes from his feet.
The sleep of death was ended, and the recovered man raised himself.
Care vanished, and with her the goloshes; doubtless she looked upon them as her own property.
THE mayor stood at the open window.
He looked smart, for his shirt-frill, in which he had stuck a breast-pin, and his ruffles, were very fine.
He had shaved his chin uncommonly smooth, although he had cut himself slightly, and had stuck a piece of newspaper over the place.
"Hark 'ee, youngster!" cried he.
The boy to whom he spoke was no other than the son of a poor washer-woman, who was just going past the house.
He stopped, and respectfully took off his cap.
The peak of this cap was broken in the middle, so that he could easily roll it up and put it in his pocket.
He stood before the mayor in his poor but clean and well-mended clothes, with heavy wooden shoes on his feet, looking as humble as if it had been the king himself.
"You are a good and civil boy," said the mayor.
"I suppose your mother is busy washing the clothes down by the river, and you are going to carry that thing to her that you have in your pocket.
It is very bad for your mother.
How much have you got in it?"
"Only half a quartern," stammered the boy in a frightened voice.
"And she has had just as much this morning already?"
"No, it was yesterday," replied the boy.
"Two halves make a whole," said the mayor.
"She's good for nothing.
What a sad thing it is with these people.
Tell your mother she ought to be ashamed of herself.
Don't you become a drunkard, but I expect you will though.
Poor child! there, go now."
The boy went on his way with his cap in his hand, while the wind fluttered his golden hair till the locks stood up straight.
He turned round the corner of the street into the little lane that led to the river, where his mother stood in the water by her washing bench, beating the linen with a heavy wooden bar.
The floodgates at the mill had been drawn up, and as the water rolled rapidly on, the sheets were dragged along by the stream, and nearly overturned the bench, so that the washer-woman was obliged to lean against it to keep it steady.
"I have been very nearly carried away," she said; "it is a good thing that you are come, for I want something to strengthen me.
It is cold in the water, and I have stood here six hours.
Have you brought anything for me?"
The boy drew the bottle from his pocket, and the mother put it to her lips, and drank a little.
"Ah, how much good that does, and how it warms me," she said; "it is as good as a hot meal, and not so dear.
Drink a little, my boy; you look quite pale; you are shivering in your thin clothes, and autumn has really come.
Oh, how cold the water is!
I hope I shall not be ill.
But no, I must not be afraid of that.
Give me a little more, and you may have a sip too, but only a sip; you must not get used to it, my poor, dear child."
She stepped up to the bridge on which the boy stood as she spoke, and came on shore.
The water dripped from the straw mat which she had bound round her body, and from her gown.
"I work hard and suffer pain with my poor hands," said she, "but I do it willingly, that I may be able to bring you up honestly and truthfully, my dear boy."
At the same moment, a woman, rather older than herself, came towards them.
She was a miserable-looking object, lame of one leg, and with a large false curl hanging down over one of her eyes, which was blind.
This curl was intended to conceal the blind eye, but it made the defect only more visible.
She was a friend of the laundress, and was called, among the neighbors, "Lame Martha, with the curl."
"Oh, you poor thing; how you do work, standing there in the water!" she exclaimed.
"You really do need something to give you a little warmth, and yet spiteful people cry out about the few drops you take."
And then Martha repeated to the laundress, in a very few minutes, all that the mayor had said to her boy, which she had overheard; and she felt very angry that any man could speak, as he had done, of a mother to her own child, about the few drops she had taken; and she was still more angry because, on that very day, the mayor was going to have a dinner-party, at which there would be wine, strong, rich wine, drunk by the bottle.
"Many will take more than they ought, but they don't call that drinking!
They are all right, you are good for nothing indeed!" cried Martha indignantly.
"And so he spoke to you in that way, did he, my child?" said the washer-woman, and her lips trembled as she spoke.
"He says you have a mother who is good for nothing.
Well, perhaps he is right, but he should not have said it to my child.
How much has happened to me from that house!"
"Yes," said Martha; "I remember you were in service there, and lived in the house when the mayor's parents were alive; how many years ago that is.
Bushels of salt have been eaten since then, and people may well be thirsty," and Martha smiled.
"The mayor's great dinner-party to-day ought to have been put off, but the news came too late.
The footman told me the dinner was already cooked, when a letter came to say that the mayor's younger brother in Copenhagen is dead."
"Dead!" cried the laundress, turning pale as death.
"Yes, certainly," replied Martha; "but why do you take it so much to heart?
I suppose you knew him years ago, when you were in service there?"
"Is he dead?" she exclaimed.
"Oh, he was such a kind, good-hearted man, there are not many like him," and the tears rolled down her cheeks as she spoke.
Then she cried, "Oh, dear me; I feel quite ill: everything is going round me, I cannot bear it.
Is the bottle empty?" and she leaned against the plank.
"Dear me, you are ill indeed," said the other woman.
"Come, cheer up; perhaps it will pass off.
No, indeed, I see you are really ill; the best thing for me to do is to lead you home."
"But my washing yonder?"
"I will take care of that.
Come, give me your arm.
The boy can stay here and take care of the linen, and I'll come back and finish the washing; it is but a trifle."
The limbs of the laundress shook under her, and she said, "I have stood too long in the cold water, and I have had nothing to eat the whole day since the morning.
O kind Heaven, help me to get home; I am in a burning fever.
Oh, my poor child," and she burst into tears.
And he, poor boy, wept also, as he sat alone by the river, near to and watching the damp linen.
The two women walked very slowly.
The laundress slipped and tottered through the lane, and round the corner, into the street where the mayor lived; and just as she reached the front of his house, she sank down upon the pavement.
Many persons came round her, and Lame Martha ran into the house for help.
The mayor and his guests came to the window.
"Oh, it is the laundress," said he; "she has had a little drop too much.
She is good for nothing.
It is a sad thing for her pretty little son.
I like the boy very well; but the mother is good for nothing."
After a while the laundress recovered herself, and they led her to her poor dwelling, and put her to bed.
Kind Martha warmed a mug of beer for her, with butter and sugar- she considered this the best medicine- and then hastened to the river, washed and rinsed, badly enough, to be sure, but she did her best.
Then she drew the linen ashore, wet as it was, and laid it in a basket.
Before evening, she was sitting in the poor little room with the laundress.
The mayor's cook had given her some roasted potatoes and a beautiful piece of fat for the sick woman.
Martha and the boy enjoyed these good things very much; but the sick woman could only say that the smell was very nourishing, she thought.
By-and-by the boy was put to bed, in the same bed as the one in which his mother lay; but he slept at her feet, covered with an old quilt made of blue and white patchwork.
The laundress felt a little better by this time.
The warm beer had strengthened her, and the smell of the good food had been pleasant to her.
"Many thanks, you good soul," she said to Martha.
"Now the boy is asleep, I will tell you all.
He is soon asleep.
How gentle and sweet he looks as he lies there with his eyes closed!
He does not know how his mother has suffered; and Heaven grant he never may know it.
I was in service at the counsellor's, the father of the mayor, and it happened that the youngest of his sons, the student, came home.
I was a young wild girl then, but honest; that I can declare in the sight of Heaven.
The student was merry and gay, brave and affectionate; every drop of blood in him was good and honorable; a better man never lived on earth.
He was the son of the house, and I was only a maid; but he loved me truly and honorably, and he told his mother of it.
She was to him as an angel upon earth; she was so wise and loving.
He went to travel, and before he started he placed a gold ring on my finger; and as soon as he was out of the house, my mistress sent for me.
Gently and earnestly she drew me to her, and spake as if an angel were speaking.
She showed me clearly, in spirit and in truth, the difference there was between him and me.
'He is pleased now,' she said, 'with your pretty face; but good looks do not last long.
You have not been educated like he has.
You are not equals in mind and rank, and therein lies the misfortune.
I esteem the poor,' she added.
'In the sight of God, they may occupy a higher place than many of the rich; but here upon earth we must beware of entering upon a false track, lest we are overturned in our plans, like a carriage that travels by a dangerous road.
I know a worthy man, an artisan, who wishes to marry you.
I mean Eric, the glovemaker.
He is a widower, without children, and in a good position.
Will you think it over?'
Every word she said pierced my heart like a knife; but I knew she was right, and the thought pressed heavily upon me.
I kissed her hand, and wept bitter tears, and I wept still more when I went to my room, and threw myself on the bed.
I passed through a dreadful night; God knows what I suffered, and how I struggled.
The following Sunday I went to the house of God to pray for light to direct my path.
It seemed like a providence that as I stepped out of church Eric came towards me; and then there remained not a doubt in my mind.
We were suited to each other in rank and circumstances.
He was, even then, a man of good means.
I went up to him, and took his hand, and said, 'Do you still feel the same for me?' 'Yes; ever and always,' said he.
'Will you, then, marry a maiden who honors and esteems you, although she cannot offer you her love? but that may come.' 'Yes, it will come,' said he; and we joined our hands together, and I went home to my mistress.
The gold ring which her son had given me I wore next to my heart.
I could not place it on my finger during the daytime, but only in the evening, when I went to bed.
I kissed the ring till my lips almost bled, and then I gave it to my mistress, and told her that the banns were to be put up for me and the glovemaker the following week.
Then my mistress threw her arms round me, and kissed me.
She did not say that I was 'good for nothing;' very likely I was better then than I am now; but the misfortunes of this world, were unknown to me then.
At Michaelmas we were married, and for the first year everything went well with us.
We had a journeyman and an apprentice, and you were our servant, Martha."
"Ah, yes, and you were a dear, good mistress," said Martha, "I shall never forget how kind you and your husband were to me."
"Yes, those were happy years when you were with us, although we had no children at first.
The student I never met again.
Yet I saw him once, although he did not see me.
He came to his mother's funeral.
I saw him, looking pale as death, and deeply troubled, standing at her grave; for she was his mother.
Sometime after, when his father died, he was in foreign lands, and did not come home.
I know that he never married, I believe he became a lawyer.
He had forgotten me, and even had we met he would not have known me, for I have lost all my good looks, and perhaps that is all for the best."
And then she spoke of the dark days of trial, when misfortune had fallen upon them.
"We had five hundred dollars," she said, "and there was a house in the street to be sold for two hundred, so we thought it would be worth our while to pull it down and build a new one in its place; so it was bought.
The builder and carpenter made an estimate that the new house would cost ten hundred and twenty dollars to build.
Eric had credit, so he borrowed the money in the chief town.
But the captain, who was bringing it to him, was shipwrecked, and the money lost.
Just about this time, my dear sweet boy, who lies sleeping there, was born, and my husband was attacked with a severe lingering illness.
For three quarters of a year I was obliged to dress and undress him.
We were backward in our payments, we borrowed more money, and all that we had was lost and sold, and then my husband died.
Since then I have worked, toiled, and striven for the sake of the child.
I have scrubbed and washed both coarse and fine linen, but I have not been able to make myself better off; and it was God's will.
In His own time He will take me to Himself, but I know He will never forsake my boy."
Then she fell asleep.
In the morning she felt much refreshed, and strong enough, as she thought, to go on with her work.
But as soon as she stepped into the cold water, a sudden faintness seized her; she clutched at the air convulsively with her hand, took one step forward, and fell.
Her head rested on dry land, but her feet were in the water; her wooden shoes, which were only tied on by a wisp of straw, were carried away by the stream, and thus she was found by Martha when she came to bring her some coffee.
In the meantime a messenger had been sent to her house by the mayor, to say that she must come to him immediately, as he had something to tell her.
It was too late; a surgeon had been sent for to open a vein in her arm, but the poor woman was dead.
"She has drunk herself to death," said the cruel mayor.
In the letter, containing the news of his brother's death, it was stated that he had left in his will a legacy of six hundred dollars to the glovemaker's widow, who had been his mother's maid, to be paid with discretion, in large or small sums to the widow or her child.
"There was something between my brother and her, I remember," said the mayor; "it is a good thing that she is out of the way, for now the boy will have the whole.
I will place him with honest people to bring him up, that he may become a respectable working man."
And the blessing of God rested upon these words.
The mayor sent for the boy to come to him, and promised to take care of him, but most cruelly added that it was a good thing that his mother was dead, for "she was good for nothing."
They carried her to the churchyard, the churchyard in which the poor were buried.
Martha strewed sand on the grave and planted a rose-tree upon it, and the boy stood by her side.
"Oh, my poor mother!" he cried, while the tears rolled down his cheeks.
"Is it true what they say, that she was good for nothing?"
"No, indeed, it is not true," replied the old servant, raising her eyes to heaven; "she was worth a great deal; I knew it years ago, and since the last night of her life I am more certain of it than ever.
I say she was a good and worthy woman, and God, who is in heaven, knows I am speaking the truth, though the world may say, even now she was good for nothing."
GRANDMOTHER is very old, her face is wrinkled, and her hair is quite white; but her eyes are like two stars, and they have a mild, gentle expression in them when they look at you, which does you good.
She wears a dress of heavy, rich silk, with large flowers worked on it; and it rustles when she moves.
And then she can tell the most wonderful stories.
Grandmother knows a great deal, for she was alive before father and mother- that's quite certain.
She has a hymn-book with large silver clasps, in which she often reads; and in the book, between the leaves, lies a rose, quite flat and dry; it is not so pretty as the roses which are standing in the glass, and yet she smiles at it most pleasantly, and tears even come into her eyes.
"I wonder why grandmother looks at the withered flower in the old book that way?
Do you know?"
Why, when grandmother's tears fall upon the rose, and she is looking at it, the rose revives, and fills the room with its fragrance; the walls vanish as in a mist, and all around her is the glorious green wood, where in summer the sunlight streams through thick foliage; and grandmother, why she is young again, a charming maiden, fresh as a rose, with round, rosy cheeks, fair, bright ringlets, and a figure pretty and graceful; but the eyes, those mild, saintly eyes, are the same,- they have been left to grandmother.
At her side sits a young man, tall and strong; he gives her a rose and she smiles.
Grandmother cannot smile like that now.
Yes, she is smiling at the memory of that day, and many thoughts and recollections of the past; but the handsome young man is gone, and the rose has withered in the old book, and grandmother is sitting there, again an old woman, looking down upon the withered rose in the book.
Grandmother is dead now.
She had been sitting in her arm-chair, telling us a long, beautiful tale; and when it was finished, she said she was tired, and leaned her head back to sleep awhile.
We could hear her gentle breathing as she slept; gradually it became quieter and calmer, and on her countenance beamed happiness and peace.
It was as if lighted up with a ray of sunshine.
She smiled once more, and then people said she was dead.
She was laid in a black coffin, looking mild and beautiful in the white folds of the shrouded linen, though her eyes were closed; but every wrinkle had vanished, her hair looked white and silvery, and around her mouth lingered a sweet smile.
We did not feel at all afraid to look at the corpse of her who had been such a dear, good grandmother.
The hymn-book, in which the rose still lay, was placed under her head, for so she had wished it; and then they buried grandmother.
On the grave, close by the churchyard wall, they planted a rose-tree; it was soon full of roses, and the nightingale sat among the flowers, and sang over the grave.
From the organ in the church sounded the music and the words of the beautiful psalms, which were written in the old book under the head of the dead one.
The moon shone down upon the grave, but the dead was not there; every child could go safely, even at night, and pluck a rose from the tree by the churchyard wall.
The dead know more than we do who are living.
They know what a terror would come upon us if such a strange thing were to happen, as the appearance of a dead person among us.
They are better off than we are; the dead return no more.
The earth has been heaped on the coffin, and it is earth only that lies within it.
The leaves of the hymn-book are dust; and the rose, with all its recollections, has crumbled to dust also.
But over the grave fresh roses bloom, the nightingale sings, and the organ sounds and there still lives a remembrance of old grandmother, with the loving, gentle eyes that always looked young.
Eyes can never die.
Ours will once again behold dear grandmother, young and beautiful as when, for the first time, she kissed the fresh, red rose, that is now dust in the grave.
THIS story really consists of two parts.
The first part might be left out, but it gives us a few particulars, and these are useful We were staying in the country at a gentleman's seat, where it happened that the master was absent for a few days.
In the meantime, there arrived from the next town a lady; she had a pug dog with her, and came, she said, to dispose of shares in her tan-yard.
She had her papers with her, and we advised her to put them in an envelope, and to write thereon the address of the proprietor of the estate, "General War-Commissary Knight," &c.
She listened to us attentively, seized the pen, paused, and begged us to repeat the direction slowly.
We complied, and she wrote; but in the midst of the "General War-" she struck fast, sighed deeply, and said, "I am only a woman!"
Her Puggie had seated itself on the ground while she wrote, and growled; for the dog had come with her for amusement and for the sake of its health; and then the bare floor ought not to be offered to a visitor.
His outward appearance was characterized by a snub nose and a very fat back.
"He doesn't bite," said the lady; "he has no teeth.
He is like one of the family, faithful and grumpy; but the latter is my grandchildren's fault, for they have teased him; they play at wedding, and want to give him the part of the bridesmaid, and that's too much for him, poor old fellow."
And she delivered her papers, and took Puggie upon her arm.
And this is the first part of the story which might have been left out.
PUGGIE DIED!!
That's the second part.
It was about a week afterwards we arrived in the town, and put up at the inn.
Our windows looked into the tan-yard, which was divided into two parts by a partition of planks; in one half were many skins and hides, raw and tanned.
Here was all the apparatus necessary to carry on a tannery, and it belonged to the widow.
Puggie had died in the morning, and was to be buried in this part of the yard; the grandchildren of the widow (that is, of the tanner's widow, for Puggie had never been married) filled up the grave, and it was a beautiful grave- it must have been quite pleasant to lie there.
The grave was bordered with pieces of flower-pots and strewn over with sand; quite at the top they had stuck up half a beer bottle, with the neck upwards, and that was not at all allegorical.
The children danced round the grave, and the eldest of the boys among them, a practical youngster of seven years, made the proposition that there should be an exhibition of Puggie's burial-place for all who lived in the lane; the price of admission was to be a trouser button, for every boy would be sure to have one, and each might also give one for a little girl.
This proposal was adopted by acclamation.
And all the children out of the lane- yes, even out of the little lane at the back- flocked to the place, and each gave a button.
Many were noticed to go about on that afternoon with only one suspender; but then they had seen Puggie's grave, and the sight was worth much more.
But in front of the tan-yard, close to the entrance, stood a little girl clothed in rags, very pretty to look at, with curly hair, and eyes so blue and clear that it was a pleasure to look into them.
The child said not a word, nor did she cry; but each time the little door was opened she gave a long, long look into the yard.
She had not a button- that she knew right well, and therefore she remained standing sorrowfully outside, till all the others had seen the grave and had gone away; then she sat down, held her little brown hands before her eyes, and burst into tears; this girl alone had not seen Puggie's grave.
It was a grief as great to her as any grown person can experience.
We saw this from above; and looked at from above, how many a grief of our own and of others can make us smile!
That is the story, and whoever does not understand it may go and purchase a share in the tan-yard from the window.
THE largest green leaf in this country is certainly the burdock-leaf.
If you hold it in front of you, it is large enough for an apron; and if you hold it over your head, it is almost as good as an umbrella, it is so wonderfully large.
A burdock never grows alone; where it grows, there are many more, and it is a splendid sight; and all this splendor is good for snails.
The great white snails, which grand people in olden times used to have made into fricassees; and when they had eaten them, they would say, "O, what a delicious dish!" for these people really thought them good; and these snails lived on burdock-leaves, and for them the burdock was planted.
There was once an old estate where no one now lived to require snails; indeed, the owners had all died out, but the burdock still flourished; it grew over all the beds and walks of the garden- its growth had no check- till it became at last quite a forest of burdocks.
Here and there stood an apple or a plum-tree; but for this, nobody would have thought the place had ever been a garden.
It was burdock from one end to the other; and here lived the last two surviving snails.
They knew not themselves how old they were; but they could remember the time when there were a great many more of them, and that they were descended from a family which came from foreign lands, and that the whole forest had been planted for them and theirs.
They had never been away from the garden; but they knew that another place once existed in the world, called the Duke's Palace Castle, in which some of their relations had been boiled till they became black, and were then laid on a silver dish; but what was done afterwards they did not know.
Besides, they could not imagine exactly how it felt to be boiled and placed on a silver dish; but no doubt it was something very fine and highly genteel.
Neither the cockchafer, nor the toad, nor the earth-worm, whom they questioned about it, would give them the least information; for none of their relations had ever been cooked or served on a silver dish.
The old white snails were the most aristocratic race in the world,- they knew that.
The forest had been planted for them, and the nobleman's castle had been built entirely that they might be cooked and laid on silver dishes.
They lived quite retired and very happily; and as they had no children of their own, they had adopted a little common snail, which they brought up as their own child.
The little one would not grow, for he was only a common snail; but the old people, particularly the mother-snail, declared that she could easily see how he grew; and when the father said he could not perceive it, she begged him to feel the little snail's shell, and he did so, and found that the mother was right.
One day it rained very fast.
"Listen, what a drumming there is on the burdock-leaves; turn, turn, turn; turn, turn, turn," said the father-snail.
"There come the drops," said the mother; "they are trickling down the stalks.
We shall have it very wet here presently.
I am very glad we have such good houses, and that the little one has one of his own.
There has been really more done for us than for any other creature; it is quite plain that we are the most noble people in the world.
We have houses from our birth, and the burdock forest has been planted for us.
I should very much like to know how far it extends, and what lies beyond it."
"There can be nothing better than we have here," said the father-snail; "I wish for nothing more."
"Yes, but I do," said the mother; "I should like to be taken to the palace, and boiled, and laid upon a silver dish, as was done to all our ancestors; and you may be sure it must be something very uncommon."
"The nobleman's castle, perhaps, has fallen to decay," said the snail-father, or the burdock wood may have grown out.
You need not be in a hurry; you are always so impatient, and the youngster is getting just the same.
He has been three days creeping to the top of that stalk.
I feel quite giddy when I look at him."
"You must not scold him," said the mother-snail; "he creeps so very carefully.
He will be the joy of our home; and we old folks have nothing else to live for.
But have you ever thought where we are to get a wife for him?
Do you think that farther out in the wood there may be others of our race?"
"There may be black snails, no doubt," said the old snail; "black snails without houses; but they are so vulgar and conceited too.
But we can give the ants a commission; they run here and there, as if they all had so much business to get through.
They, most likely, will know of a wife for our youngster."
"I certainly know a most beautiful bride," said one of the ants; "but I fear it would not do, for she is a queen."
"That does not matter," said the old snail; "has she a house?"
"She has a palace," replied the ant,- "a most beautiful ant-palace with seven hundred passages."
"Thank-you," said the mother-snail; "but our boy shall not go to live in an ant-hill.
If you know of nothing better, we will give the commission to the white gnats; they fly about in rain and sunshine; they know the burdock wood from one end to the other."
"We have a wife for him," said the gnats; "a hundred man-steps from here there is a little snail with a house, sitting on a gooseberry-bush; she is quite alone, and old enough to be married.
It is only a hundred man-steps from here."
"Then let her come to him," said the old people.
"He has the whole burdock forest; she has only a bush."
So they brought the little lady-snail.
She took eight days to perform the journey; but that was just as it ought to be; for it showed her to be one of the right breeding.
And then they had a wedding.
Six glow-worms gave as much light as they could; but in other respects it was all very quiet; for the old snails could not bear festivities or a crowd.
But a beautiful speech was made by the mother-snail.
The father could not speak; he was too much overcome.
Then they gave the whole burdock forest to the young snails as an inheritance, and repeated what they had so often said, that it was the finest place in the world, and that if they led upright and honorable lives, and their family increased, they and their children might some day be taken to the nobleman's palace, to be boiled black, and laid on a silver dish.
And when they had finished speaking, the old couple crept into their houses, and came out no more; for they slept.
The young snail pair now ruled in the forest, and had a numerous progeny.
But as the young ones were never boiled or laid in silver dishes, they concluded that the castle had fallen into decay, and that all the people in the world were dead; and as nobody contradicted them, they thought they must be right.
And the rain fell upon the burdock-leaves, to play the drum for them, and the sun shone to paint colors on the burdock forest for them, and they were very happy; the whole family were entirely and perfectly happy.
HIGH up in the clear, pure air flew an angel, with a flower plucked from the garden of heaven.
As he was kissing the flower a very little leaf fell from it and sunk down into the soft earth in the middle of a wood.
It immediately took root, sprouted, and sent out shoots among the other plants.
"What a ridiculous little shoot!" said one.
"No one will recognize it; not even the thistle nor the stinging-nettle."
"It must be a kind of garden plant," said another; and so they sneered and despised the plant as a thing from a garden.
"Where are you coming?" said the tall thistles whose leaves were all armed with thorns.
"It is stupid nonsense to allow yourself to shoot out in this way; we are not here to support you."
Winter came, and the plant was covered with snow, but the snow glittered over it as if it had sunshine beneath as well as above.
When spring came, the plant appeared in full bloom: a more beautiful object than any other plant in the forest.
And now the professor of botany presented himself, one who could explain his knowledge in black and white.
He examined and tested the plant, but it did not belong to his system of botany, nor could he possibly find out to what class it did belong.
"It must be some degenerate species," said he; "I do not know it, and it is not mentioned in any system."
"Not known in any system!" repeated the thistles and the nettles.
The large trees which grew round it saw the plant and heard the remarks, but they said not a word either good or bad, which is the wisest plan for those who are ignorant.
There passed through the forest a poor innocent girl; her heart was pure, and her understanding increased by her faith.
Her chief inheritance had been an old Bible, which she read and valued.
From its pages she heard the voice of God speaking to her, and telling her to remember what was said of Joseph's brethren when persons wished to injure her.
"They imagined evil in their hearts, but God turned it to good."
If we suffer wrongfully, if we are misunderstood or despised, we must think of Him who was pure and holy, and who prayed for those who nailed Him to the cross, "Father forgive them, for they know not what they do."
The girl stood still before the wonderful plant, for the green leaves exhaled a sweet and refreshing fragrance, and the flowers glittered and sparkled in the sunshine like colored flames, and the harmony of sweet sounds lingered round them as if each concealed within itself a deep fount of melody, which thousands of years could not exhaust.
With pious gratitude the girl looked upon this glorious work of God, and bent down over one of the branches, that she might examine the flower and inhale the sweet perfume.
Then a light broke in on her mind, and her heart expanded.
Gladly would she have plucked a flower, but she could not overcome her reluctance to break one off.
She knew it would so soon fade; so she took only a single green leaf, carried it home, and laid it in her Bible, where it remained ever green, fresh, and unfading.
Between the pages of the Bible it still lay when, a few weeks afterwards, that Bible was laid under the young girl's head in her coffin.
A holy calm rested on her face, as if the earthly remains bore the impress of the truth that she now stood in the presence of God.
In the forest the wonderful plant still continued to bloom till it grew and became almost a tree, and all the birds of passage bowed themselves before it.
"That plant is a foreigner, no doubt," said the thistles and the burdocks.
"We can never conduct ourselves like that in this country."
And the black forest snails actually spat at the flower.
Then came the swineherd; he was collecting thistles and shrubs to burn them for the ashes.
He pulled up the wonderful plant, roots and all, and placed it in his bundle.
"This will be as useful as any," he said; so the plant was carried away.
Not long after, the king of the country suffered from the deepest melancholy.
He was diligent and industrious, but employment did him no good.
They read deep and learned books to him, and then the lightest and most trifling that could be found, but all to no purpose.
Then they applied for advice to one of the wise men of the world, and he sent them a message to say that there was one remedy which would relieve and cure him, and that it was a plant of heavenly origin which grew in the forest in the king's own dominions.
The messenger described the flower so that is appearance could not be mistaken.
Then said the swineherd, "I am afraid I carried this plant away from the forest in my bundle, and it has been burnt to ashes long ago.
But I did not know any better."
"You did not know, any better!
Ignorance upon ignorance indeed!"
The poor swineherd took these words to heart, for they were addressed to him; he knew not that there were others who were equally ignorant.
Not even a leaf of the plant could be found.
There was one, but it lay in the coffin of the dead; no one knew anything about it.
Then the king, in his melancholy, wandered out to the spot in the wood.
"Here is where the plant stood," he said; "it is a sacred place."
Then he ordered that the place should be surrounded with a golden railing, and a sentry stationed near it.
The botanical professor wrote a long treatise about the heavenly plant, and for this he was loaded with gold, which improved the position of himself and his family.
And this part is really the most pleasant part of the story.
For the plant had disappeared, and the king remained as melancholy and sad as ever, but the sentry said he had always been so.
IN Denmark there stands an old castle named Kronenburg, close by the Sound of Elsinore, where large ships, both English, Russian, and Prussian, pass by hundreds every day.
And they salute the old castle with cannons, "Boom, boom," which is as if they said, "Good-day."
And the cannons of the old castle answer "Boom," which means "Many thanks."
In winter no ships sail by, for the whole Sound is covered with ice as far as the Swedish coast, and has quite the appearance of a high-road.
The Danish and the Swedish flags wave, and Danes and Swedes say, "Good-day," and "Thank you" to each other, not with cannons, but with a friendly shake of the hand; and they exchange white bread and biscuits with each other, because foreign articles taste the best.
But the most beautiful sight of all is the old castle of Kronenburg, where Holger Danske sits in the deep, dark cellar, into which no one goes.
He is clad in iron and steel, and rests his head on his strong arm; his long beard hangs down upon the marble table, into which it has become firmly rooted; he sleeps and dreams, but in his dreams he sees everything that happens in Denmark.
On each Christmas-eve an angel comes to him and tells him that all he has dreamed is true, and that he may go to sleep again in peace, as Denmark is not yet in any real danger; but should danger ever come, then Holger Danske will rouse himself, and the table will burst asunder as he draws out his beard.
Then he will come forth in his strength, and strike a blow that shall sound in all the countries of the world.
An old grandfather sat and told his little grandson all this about Holger Danske, and the boy knew that what his grandfather told him must be true.
As the old man related this story, he was carving an image in wood to represent Holger Danske, to be fastened to the prow of a ship; for the old grandfather was a carver in wood, that is, one who carved figures for the heads of ships, according to the names given to them.
And now he had carved Holger Danske, who stood there erect and proud, with his long beard, holding in one hand his broad battle-axe, while with the other he leaned on the Danish arms.
The old grandfather told the little boy a great deal about Danish men and women who had distinguished themselves in olden times, so that he fancied he knew as much even as Holger Danske himself, who, after all, could only dream; and when the little fellow went to bed, he thought so much about it that he actually pressed his chin against the counterpane, and imagined that he had a long beard which had become rooted to it.
But the old grandfather remained sitting at his work and carving away at the last part of it, which was the Danish arms.
And when he had finished he looked at the whole figure, and thought of all he had heard and read, and what he had that evening related to his little grandson.
Then he nodded his head, wiped his spectacles and put them on, and said, "Ah, yes; Holger Danske will not appear in my lifetime, but the boy who is in bed there may very likely live to see him when the event really comes to pass."
And the old grandfather nodded again; and the more he looked at Holger Danske, the more satisfied he felt that he had carved a good image of him.
It seemed to glow with the color of life; the armor glittered like iron and steel.
The hearts in the Danish arms grew more and more red; while the lions, with gold crowns on their heads, were leaping up.
"That is the most beautiful coat of arms in the world," said the old man.
"The lions represent strength; and the hearts, gentleness and love."
And as he gazed on the uppermost lion, he thought of King Canute, who chained great England to Denmark's throne; and he looked at the second lion, and thought of Waldemar, who untied Denmark and conquered the Vandals.
The third lion reminded him of Margaret, who united Denmark, Sweden, and Norway.
But when he gazed at the red hearts, their colors glowed more deeply, even as flames, and his memory followed each in turn.
The first led him to a dark, narrow prison, in which sat a prisoner, a beautiful woman, daughter of Christian the Fourth, Eleanor Ulfeld, and the flame became a rose on her bosom, and its blossoms were not more pure than the heart of this noblest and best of all Danish women.
"Ah, yes; that is indeed a noble heart in the Danish arms," said the grandfather. and his spirit followed the second flame, which carried him out to sea, where cannons roared and the ships lay shrouded in smoke, and the flaming heart attached itself to the breast of Hvitfeldt in the form of the ribbon of an order, as he blew himself and his ship into the air in order to save the fleet.
And the third flame led him to Greenland's wretched huts, where the preacher, Hans Egede, ruled with love in every word and action.
The flame was as a star on his breast, and added another heart to the Danish arms.
And as the old grandfather's spirit followed the next hovering flame, he knew whither it would lead him.
In a peasant woman's humble room stood Frederick the Sixth, writing his name with chalk on the beam.
The flame trembled on his breast and in his heart, and it was in the peasant's room that his heart became one for the Danish arms.
The old grandfather wiped his eyes, for he had known King Frederick, with his silvery locks and his honest blue eyes, and had lived for him, and he folded his hands and remained for some time silent.
Then his daughter came to him and said it was getting late, that he ought to rest for a while, and that the supper was on the table.
"What you have been carving is very beautiful, grandfather," said she.
"Holger Danske and the old coat of arms; it seems to me as if I have seen the face somewhere."
"No, that is impossible," replied the old grandfather; "but I have seen it, and I have tried to carve it in wood, as I have retained it in my memory.
It was a long time ago, while the English fleet lay in the roads, on the second of April, when we showed that we were true, ancient Danes.
I was on board the Denmark, in Steene Bille's squadron; I had a man by my side whom even the cannon balls seemed to fear.
He sung old songs in a merry voice, and fired and fought as if he were something more than a man.
I still remember his face, but from whence he came, or whither he went, I know not; no one knows.
I have often thought it might have been Holger Danske himself, who had swam down to us from Kronenburg to help us in the hour of danger.
That was my idea, and there stands his likeness."
The wooden figure threw a gigantic shadow on the wall, and even on part of the ceiling; it seemed as if the real Holger Danske stood behind it, for the shadow moved; but this was no doubt caused by the flame of the lamp not burning steadily.
Then the daughter-in-law kissed the old grandfather, and led him to a large arm-chair by the table; and she, and her husband, who was the son of the old man and the father of the little boy who lay in bed, sat down to supper with him.
And the old grandfather talked of the Danish lions and the Danish hearts, emblems of strength and gentleness, and explained quite clearly that there is another strength than that which lies in a sword, and he pointed to a shelf where lay a number of old books, and amongst them a collection of Holberg's plays, which are much read and are so clever and amusing that it is easy to fancy we have known the people of those days, who are described in them.
"He knew how to fight also," said the old man; "for he lashed the follies and prejudices of people during his whole life."
Then the grandfather nodded to a place above the looking-glass, where hung an almanac, with a representation of the Round Tower upon it, and said "Tycho Brahe was another of those who used a sword, but not one to cut into the flesh and bone, but to make the way of the stars of heaven clear, and plain to be understood.
And then he whose father belonged to my calling,- yes, he, the son of the old image-carver, he whom we ourselves have seen, with his silvery locks and his broad shoulders, whose name is known in all lands;- yes, he was a sculptor, while I am only a carver.
Holger Danske can appear in marble, so that people in all countries of the world may hear of the strength of Denmark.
Now let us drink the health of Bertel."
But the little boy in bed saw plainly the old castle of Kronenburg, and the Sound of Elsinore, and Holger Danske, far down in the cellar, with his beard rooted to the table, and dreaming of everything that was passing above him.
And Holger Danske did dream of the little humble room in which the image-carver sat; he heard all that had been said, and he nodded in his dream, saying, "Ah, yes, remember me, you Danish people, keep me in your memory, I will come to you in the hour of need."
The bright morning light shone over Kronenburg, and the wind brought the sound of the hunting-horn across from the neighboring shores.
The ships sailed by and saluted the castle with the boom of the cannon, and Kronenburg returned the salute, "Boom, boom."
But the roaring cannons did not awake Holger Danske, for they meant only "Good morning," and "Thank you."
They must fire in another fashion before he awakes; but wake he will, for there is energy yet in Holger Danske.
IN the forest that extends from the banks of the Gudenau, in North Jutland, a long way into the country, and not far from the clear stream, rises a great ridge of land, which stretches through the wood like a wall.
Westward of this ridge, and not far from the river, stands a farmhouse, surrounded by such poor land that the sandy soil shows itself between the scanty ears of rye and wheat which grow in it.
Some years have passed since the people who lived here cultivated these fields; they kept three sheep, a pig, and two oxen; in fact they maintained themselves very well, they had quite enough to live upon, as people generally have who are content with their lot.
They even could have afforded to keep two horses, but it was a saying among the farmers in those parts, "The horse eats himself up;" that is to say, he eats as much as he earns.
Jeppe Jans cultivated his fields in summer, and in the winter he made wooden shoes.
He also had an assistant, a lad who understood as well as he himself did how to make wooden shoes strong, but light, and in the fashion.
They carved shoes and spoons, which paid well; therefore no one could justly call Jeppe Jans and his family poor people.
Little Ib, a boy of seven years old and the only child, would sit by, watching the workmen, or cutting a stick, and sometimes his finger instead of the stick.
But one day Ib succeeded so well in his carving that he made two pieces of wood look really like two little wooden shoes, and he determined to give them as a present to Little Christina.
"And who was Little Christina?"
She was the boatman's daughter, graceful and delicate as the child of a gentleman; had she been dressed differently, no one would have believed that she lived in a hut on the neighboring heath with her father.
He was a widower, and earned his living by carrying firewood in his large boat from the forest to the eel-pond and eel-weir, on the estate of Silkborg, and sometimes even to the distant town of Randers.
There was no one under whose care he could leave Little Christina; so she was almost always with him in his boat, or playing in the wood among the blossoming heath, or picking the ripe wild berries.
Sometimes, when her father had to go as far as the town, he would take Little Christina, who was a year younger than Ib, across the heath to the cottage of Jeppe Jans, and leave her there.
Ib and Christina agreed together in everything; they divided their bread and berries when they were hungry; they were partners in digging their little gardens; they ran, and crept, and played about everywhere.
Once they wandered a long way into the forest, and even ventured together to climb the high ridge.
Another time they found a few snipes' eggs in the wood, which was a great event.
Ib had never been on the heath where Christina's father lived, nor on the river; but at last came an opportunity.
Christina's father invited him to go for a sail in his boat; and the evening before, he accompanied the boatman across the heath to his house.
The next morning early, the two children were placed on the top of a high pile of firewood in the boat, and sat eating bread and wild strawberries, while Christina's father and his man drove the boat forward with poles.
They floated on swiftly, for the tide was in their favor, passing over lakes, formed by the stream in its course; sometimes they seemed quite enclosed by reeds and water-plants, yet there was always room for them to pass out, although the old trees overhung the water and the old oaks stretched out their bare branches, as if they had turned up their sleeves and wished to show their knotty, naked arms.
Old alder-trees, whose roots were loosened from the banks, clung with their fibres to the bottom of the stream, and the tops of the branches above the water looked like little woody islands.
The water-lilies waved themselves to and fro on the river, everything made the excursion beautiful, and at last they came to the great eel-weir, where the water rushed through the flood-gates; and the children thought this a beautiful sight.
In those days there was no factory nor any town house, nothing but the great farm, with its scanty-bearing fields, in which could be seen a few herd of cattle, and one or two farm laborers.
The rushing of the water through the sluices, and the scream of the wild ducks, were almost the only signs of active life at Silkborg.
After the firewood had been unloaded, Christina's father bought a whole bundle of eels and a sucking-pig, which were all placed in a basket in the stern of the boat.
Then they returned again up the stream; and as the wind was favorable, two sails were hoisted, which carried the boat on as well as if two horses had been harnessed to it.
As they sailed on, they came by chance to the place where the boatman's assistant lived, at a little distance from the bank of the river.
The boat was moored; and the two men, after desiring the children to sit still, both went on shore. they obeyed this order for a very short time, and then forgot it altogether.
First they peeped into the basket containing the eels and the sucking-pig; then they must needs pull out the pig and take it in their hands, and feel it, and touch it; and as they both wanted to hold it at the same time, the consequence was that they let it fall into the water, and the pig sailed away with the stream.
Here was a terrible disaster.
Ib jumped ashore, and ran a little distance from the boat.
"Oh, take me with you," cried Christina; and she sprang after him.
In a few minutes they found themselves deep in a thicket, and could no longer see the boat or the shore.
They ran on a little farther, and then Christina fell down, and began to cry.
Ib helped her up, and said, "Never mind; follow me.
Yonder is the house."
But the house was not yonder; and they wandered still farther, over the dry rustling leaves of the last year, and treading on fallen branches that crackled under their little feet; then they heard a loud, piercing cry, and they stood still to listen.
Presently the scream of an eagle sounded through the wood; it was an ugly cry, and it frightened the children; but before them, in the thickest part of the forest, grew the most beautiful blackberries, in wonderful quantities.
They looked so inviting that the children could not help stopping; and they remained there so long eating, that their mouths and cheeks became quite black with the juice.
Presently they heard the frightful scream again, and Christina said, "We shall get into trouble about that pig."
"Oh, never mind," said Ib; "we will go home to my father's house.
It is here in the wood."
So they went on, but the road led them out of the way; no house could be seen, it grew dark, and the children were afraid.
The solemn stillness that reigned around them was now and then broken by the shrill cries of the great horned owl and other birds that they knew nothing of.
At last they both lost themselves in the thicket; Christina began to cry, and then Ib cried too; and, after weeping and lamenting for some time, they stretched themselves down on the dry leaves and fell asleep.
The sun was high in the heavens when the two children woke.
They felt cold; but not far from their resting-place, on a hill, the sun was shining through the trees.
They thought if they went there they should be warm, and Ib fancied he should be able to see his father's house from such a high spot.
But they were far away from home now, in quite another part of the forest.
They clambered to the top of the rising ground, and found themselves on the edge of a declivity, which sloped down to a clear transparent lake.
Great quantities of fish could be seen through the clear water, sparkling in the sun's rays; they were quite surprised when they came so suddenly upon such an unexpected sight.
Close to where they stood grew a hazel-bush, covered with beautiful nuts.
They soon gathered some, cracked them, and ate the fine young kernels, which were only just ripe.
But there was another surprise and fright in store for them.
Out of the thicket stepped a tall old woman, her face quite brown, and her hair of a deep shining black; the whites of her eyes glittered like a Moor's; on her back she carried a bundle, and in her hand a knotted stick.
She was a gypsy.
The children did not at first understand what she said.
She drew out of her pocket three large nuts, in which she told them were hidden the most beautiful and lovely things in the world, for they were wishing nuts.
Ib looked at her, and as she spoke so kindly, he took courage, and asked her if she would give him the nuts; and the woman gave them to him, and then gathered some more from the bushes for herself, quite a pocket full.
Ib and Christina looked at the wishing nuts with wide open eyes.
"Is there in this nut a carriage, with a pair of horses?" asked Ib.
"Yes, there is a golden carriage, with two golden horses," replied the woman.
"Then give me that nut," said Christina; so Ib gave it to her, and the strange woman tied up the nut for her in her handkerchief.
Ib held up another nut.
"Is there, in this nut, a pretty little neckerchief like the one Christina has on her neck?" asked Ib.
"There are ten neckerchiefs in it," she replied, "as well as beautiful dresses, stockings, and a hat and veil."
"Then I will have that one also," said Christina; "and it is a pretty one too.
And then Ib gave her the second nut.
The third was a little black thing.
"You may keep that one," said Christina; "it is quite as pretty."
"What is in it?" asked Ib.
"The best of all things for you," replied the gypsy.
So Ib held the nut very tight.
Then the woman promised to lead the children to the right path, that they might find their way home: and they went forward certainly in quite another direction to the one they meant to take; therefore no one ought to speak against the woman, and say that she wanted to steal the children.
In the wild wood-path they met a forester who knew Ib, and, by his help, Ib and Christina reached home, where they found every one had been very anxious about them.
They were pardoned and forgiven, although they really had both done wrong, and deserved to get into trouble; first, because they had let the sucking-pig fall into the water; and, secondly, because they had run away.
Christina was taken back to her father's house on the heath, and Ib remained in the farm-house on the borders of the wood, near the great land ridge.
The first thing Ib did that evening was to take out of his pocket the little black nut, in which the best thing of all was said to be enclosed.
He laid it carefully between the door and the door-post, and then shut the door so that the nut cracked directly.
But there was not much kernel to be seen; it was what we should call hollow or worm-eaten, and looked as if it had been filled with tobacco or rich black earth.
"It is just what I expected!" exclaimed Ib.
"How should there be room in a little nut like this for the best thing of all?
Christina will find her two nuts just the same; there will be neither fine clothes or a golden carriage in them."
Winter came; and the new year, and indeed many years passed away; until Ib was old enough to be confirmed, and, therefore, he went during a whole winter to the clergyman of the nearest village to be prepared.
One day, about this time, the boatman paid a visit to Ib's parents, and told them that Christina was going to service, and that she had been remarkably fortunate in obtaining a good place, with most respectable people.
"Only think," he said, "She is going to the rich innkeeper's, at the hotel in Herning, many miles west from here.
She is to assist the landlady in the housekeeping; and, if afterwards she behaves well and remains to be confirmed, the people will treat her as their own daughter."
So Ib and Christina took leave of each other.
People already called them "the betrothed," and at parting the girl showed Ib the two nuts, which she had taken care of ever since the time that they lost themselves in the wood; and she told him also that the little wooden shoes he once carved for her when he was a boy, and gave her as a present, had been carefully kept in a drawer ever since.
And so they parted.
After Ib's confirmation, he remained at home with his mother, for he had become a clever shoemaker, and in summer managed the farm for her quite alone.
His father had been dead some time, and his mother kept no farm servants.
Sometimes, but very seldom, he heard of Christina, through a postillion or eel-seller who was passing.
But she was well off with the rich innkeeper; and after being confirmed she wrote a letter to her father, in which was a kind message to Ib and his mother.
In this letter, she mentioned that her master and mistress had made her a present of a beautiful new dress, and some nice under-clothes.
This was, of course, pleasant news.
One day, in the following spring, there came a knock at the door of the house where Ib's old mother lived; and when they opened it, lo and behold, in stepped the boatman and Christina.
She had come to pay them a visit, and to spend the day.
A carriage had to come from the Herning hotel to the next village, and she had taken the opportunity to see her friends once more.
She looked as elegant as a real lady, and wore a pretty dress, beautifully made on purpose for her.
There she stood, in full dress, while Ib wore only his working clothes.
He could not utter a word; he could only seize her hand and hold it fast in his own, but he felt too happy and glad to open his lips.
Christina, however, was quite at her ease; she talked and talked, and kissed him in the most friendly manner.
Even afterwards, when they were left alone, and she asked, "Did you know me again, Ib?" he still stood holding her hand, and said at last, "You are become quite a grand lady, Christina, and I am only a rough working man; but I have often thought of you and of old times."
Then they wandered up the great ridge, and looked across the stream to the heath, where the little hills were covered with the flowering broom.
Ib said nothing; but before the time came for them to part, it became quite clear to him that Christina must be his wife: had they not even in childhood been called the betrothed?
To him it seemed as if they were really engaged to each other, although not a word had been spoken on the subject.
They had only a few more hours to remain together, for Christina was obliged to return that evening to the neighboring village, to be ready for the carriage which was to start the next morning early for Herning.
Ib and her father accompanied her to the village.
It was a fine moonlight evening; and when they arrived, Ib stood holding Christina's hand in his, as if he could not let her go.
His eyes brightened, and the words he uttered came with hesitation from his lips, but from the deepest recesses of his heart: "Christina, if you have not become too grand, and if you can be contented to live in my mother's house as my wife, we will be married some day.
But we can wait for a while."
"Oh yes," she replied; "Let us wait a little longer, Ib.
I can trust you, for I believe that I do love you.
But let me think it over."
Then he kissed her lips; and so they parted.
On the way home, Ib told the boatman that he and Christina were as good as engaged to each other; and the boatman found out that he had always expected it would be so, and went home with Ib that evening, and remained the night in the farmhouse; but nothing further was said of the engagement.
During the next year, two letters passed between Ib and Christina.
They were signed, "Faithful till death;" but at the end of that time, one day the boatman came over to see Ib, with a kind greeting from Christina.
He had something else to say, which made him hesitate in a strange manner.
At last it came out that Christina, who had grown a very pretty girl, was more lucky than ever.
She was courted and admired by every one; but her master's son, who had been home on a visit, was so much pleased with Christina that he wished to marry her.
He had a very good situation in an office at Copenhagen, and as she had also taken a liking for him, his parents were not unwilling to consent.
But Christina, in her heart, often thought of Ib, and knew how much he thought of her; so she felt inclined to refuse this good fortune, added the boatman.
At first Ib said not a word, but he became as white as the wall, and shook his head gently, and then he spoke,- "Christina must not refuse this good fortune."
"Then will you write a few words to her?" said the boatman.
Ib sat down to write, but he could not get on at all.
The words were not what he wished to say, so he tore up the page.
The following morning, however, a letter lay ready to be sent to Christina, and the following is what he wrote:- "The letter written by you to your father I have read, and see from it that you are prosperous in everything, and that still better fortune is in store for you.
Ask your own heart, Christina, and think over carefully what awaits you if you take me for your husband, for I possess very little in the world.
Do not think of me or of my position; think only of your own welfare.
You are bound to me by no promises; and if in your heart you have given me one, I release you from it.
May every blessing and happiness be poured out upon you, Christina.
Heaven will give me the heart's consolation.
Ever your sincere friend, IB."
This letter was sent, and Christina received it in due time.
In the course of the following November, her banns were published in the church on the heath, and also in Copenhagen, where the bridegroom lived.
She was taken to Copenhagen under the protection of her future mother-in-law, because the bridegroom could not spare time from his numerous occupations for a journey so far into Jutland.
On the journey, Christina met her father at one of the villages through which they passed, and here he took leave of her.
Very little was said about the matter to Ib, and he did not refer to it; his mother, however, noticed that he had grown very silent and pensive.
Thinking as he did of old times, no wonder the three nuts came into his mind which the gypsy woman had given him when a child, and of the two which he had given to Christina.
These wishing nuts, after all, had proved true fortune-tellers.
One had contained a gilded carriage and noble horses, and the other beautiful clothes; all of these Christina would now have in her new home at Copenhagen.
Her part had come true.
And for him the nut had contained only black earth.
The gypsy woman had said it was the best for him.
Perhaps it was, and this also would be fulfilled.
He understood the gypsy woman's meaning now.
The black earth- the dark grave- was the best thing for him now.
Again years passed away; not many, but they seemed long years to Ib.
The old innkeeper and his wife died one after the other; and the whole of their property, many thousand dollars, was inherited by their son.
Christina could have the golden carriage now, and plenty of fine clothes.
During the two long years which followed, no letter came from Christina to her father; and when at last her father received one from her, it did not speak of prosperity or happiness.
Poor Christina!
Neither she nor her husband understood how to economize or save, and the riches brought no blessing with them, because they had not asked for it.
Years passed; and for many summers the heath was covered with bloom; in winter the snow rested upon it, and the rough winds blew across the ridge under which stood Ib's sheltered home.
One spring day the sun shone brightly, and he was guiding the plough across his field.
The ploughshare struck against something which he fancied was a firestone, and then he saw glittering in the earth a splinter of shining metal which the plough had cut from something which gleamed brightly in the furrow.
He searched, and found a large golden armlet of superior workmanship, and it was evident that the plough had disturbed a Hun's grave.
He searched further, and found more valuable treasures, which Ib showed to the clergyman, who explained their value to him.
Then he went to the magistrate, who informed the president of the museum of the discovery, and advised Ib to take the treasures himself to the president.
"You have found in the earth the best thing you could find," said the magistrate.
"The best thing," thought Ib; "the very best thing for me,- and found in the earth!
Well, if it really is so, then the gypsy woman was right in her prophecy."
So Ib went in the ferry-boat from Aarhus to Copenhagen.
To him who had only sailed once or twice on the river near his own home, this seemed like a voyage on the ocean; and at length he arrived at Copenhagen.
The value of the gold he had found was paid to him; it was a large sum- six hundred dollars.
Then Ib of the heath went out, and wandered about in the great city.
On the evening before the day he had settled to return with the captain of the passage-boat, Ib lost himself in the streets, and took quite a different turning to the one he wished to follow.
He wandered on till he found himself in a poor street of the suburb called Christian's Haven.
Not a creature could be seen.
At last a very little girl came out of one of the wretched-looking houses, and Ib asked her to tell him the way to the street he wanted; she looked up timidly at him, and began to cry bitterly.
He asked her what was the matter; but what she said he could not understand.
So he went along the street with her; and as they passed under a lamp, the light fell on the little girl's face.
A strange sensation came over Ib, as he caught sight of it.
The living, breathing embodiment of Little Christina stood before him, just as he remembered her in the days of her childhood.
He followed the child to the wretched house, and ascended the narrow, crazy staircase which led to a little garret in the roof.
The air in the room was heavy and stifling, no light was burning, and from one corner came sounds of moaning and sighing.
It was the mother of the child who lay there on a miserable bed.
With the help of a match, Ib struck a light, and approached her.
"Can I be of any service to you?" he asked.
"This little girl brought me up here; but I am a stranger in this city.
Are there no neighbors or any one whom I can call?"
Then he raised the head of the sick woman, and smoothed her pillow.
He started as he did so.
It was Christina of the heath!
No one had mentioned her name to Ib for years; it would have disturbed his peace of mind, especially as the reports respecting her were not good.
The wealth which her husband had inherited from his parents had made him proud and arrogant.
He had given up his certain appointment, and travelled for six months in foreign lands, and, on his return, had lived in great style, and got into terrible debt.
For a time he had trembled on the high pedestal on which he had placed himself, till at last he toppled over, and ruin came.
His numerous merry companions, and the visitors at his table, said it served him right, for he had kept house like a madman.
One morning his corpse was found in the canal.
The cold hand of death had already touched the heart of Christina.
Her youngest child, looked for in the midst of prosperity, had sunk into the grave when only a few weeks old; and at last Christina herself became sick unto death, and lay, forsaken and dying, in a miserable room, amid poverty she might have borne in her younger days, but which was now more painful to her from the luxuries to which she had lately been accustomed.
It was her eldest child, also a Little Christina, whom Ib had followed to her home, where she suffered hunger and poverty with her mother.
It makes me unhappy to think that I shall die, and leave this poor child," sighed she.
"Oh, what will become of her?"
She could say no more.
Then Ib brought out another match, and lighted a piece of candle which he found in the room, and it threw a glimmering light over the wretched dwelling.
Ib looked at the little girl, and thought of Christina in her young days.
For her sake, could he not love this child, who was a stranger to him?
As he thus reflected, the dying woman opened her eyes, and gazed at him.
Did she recognize him?
He never knew; for not another word escaped her lips.
* * * * * * *
In the forest by the river Gudenau, not far from the heath, and beneath the ridge of land, stood the little farm, newly painted and whitewashed.
The air was heavy and dark; there were no blossoms on the heath; the autumn winds whirled the yellow leaves towards the boatman's hut, in which strangers dwelt; but the little farm stood safely sheltered beneath the tall trees and the high ridge.
The turf blazed brightly on the hearth, and within was sunlight, the sparkling light from the sunny eyes of a child; the birdlike tones from the rosy lips ringing like the song of a lark in spring.
All was life and joy.
Little Christina sat on Ib's knee.
Ib was to her both father and mother; her own parents had vanished from her memory, as a dream-picture vanishes alike from childhood and age.
Ib's house was well and prettily furnished; for he was a prosperous man now, while the mother of the little girl rested in the churchyard at Copenhagen, where she had died in poverty.
Ib had money now- money which had come to him out of the black earth; and he had Christina for his own, after all.
THE Flea, the Grasshopper, and the Skipjack once wanted to see which of them could jump highest; and they invited the whole world, and whoever else would come, to see the grand sight.
And there the three famous jumpers were met together in the room.
"Yes, I'll give my daughter to him who jumps highest," said the King, "for it would be mean to let these people jump for nothing."
The Flea stepped out first.
He had very pretty manners, and bowed in all directions, for he had young ladies' blood in his veins, and was accustomed to consort only with human beings; and that was of great consequence.
Then came the Grasshopper: he was certainly much heavier, but he had a good figure, and wore the green uniform that was born with him.
This person, moreover, maintained that he belonged to a very old family in the land of Egypt, and that he was highly esteemed there.
He had just come from the field, he said, and had been put into a card house three stories high, and all made of picture cards with the figures turned inwards.
There were doors and windows in the house, cut in the body of the Queen of Hearts.
"I sing so," he said, "that sixteen native crickets who have chirped from their youth up, and have never yet had a card house of their own, would become thinner than they are with envy if they were to hear me."
Both of them, the Flea and the Grasshopper, took care to announce who they were, and that they considered themselves entitled to marry a Princess.
The Skipjack said nothing, but it was said of him that he thought all the more; and directly the Yard Dog had smelt at him he was ready to assert that the Skipjack was of good family, and formed from the breastbone of an undoubted goose.
The old councillor, who had received three medals for holding his tongue, declared that the Skipjack possessed the gift of prophecy; one could tell by his bones whether there would be a severe winter or a mild one; and that's more than one can always tell from the breastbone of the man who writes the almanac.
"I shall not say anything more," said the old King.
"I only go on quietly, and always think the best."
Now they were to take their jump.
The Flea sprang so high that no one could see him; and then they asserted that he had not jumped at all.
That was very mean.
The Grasshopper only sprang half as high, but he sprang straight into the King's face, and the King declared that was horribly rude.
The Skipjack stood a long time considering; at last people thought that he could not jump at all.
"I only hope he's not become unwell," said the Yard Dog, and then he smelt at him again.
"Tap!" he sprang with a little crooked jump just into the lap of the Princess, who sat on a low golden stool.
Then the King said, "The highest leap was taken by him who jumped up to my daughter; for therein lies the point; but it requires head to achieve that, and the Skipjack has shown that he has a head."
And so he had the Princess.
"I jumped highest, after all," said the Flea.
"But it's all the same.
Let her have the goose-bone with its lump of wax and bit of stick.
I jumped to the highest; but in this world a body is required if one wishes to be seen."
And the Flea went into foreign military service, where it is said he was killed.
The Grasshopper seated himself out in the ditch, and thought and considered how things happened in the world.
And he too said, "Body is required! body is required!"
And then he sang his own melancholy song, and from that we have gathered this story, which they say is not true, though it's in print.
IN the forest, high up on the steep shore, and not far from the open seacoast, stood a very old oak-tree.
It was just three hundred and sixty-five years old, but that long time was to the tree as the same number of days might be to us; we wake by day and sleep by night, and then we have our dreams.
It is different with the tree; it is obliged to keep awake through three seasons of the year, and does not get any sleep till winter comes.
Winter is its time for rest; its night after the long day of spring, summer, and autumn.
On many a warm summer, the Ephemera, the flies that exist for only a day, had fluttered about the old oak, enjoyed life and felt happy and if, for a moment, one of the tiny creatures rested on one of his large fresh leaves, the tree would always say, "Poor little creature! your whole life consists only of a single day.
How very short.
It must be quite melancholy."
"Melancholy! what do you mean?" the little creature would always reply.
"Everything around me is so wonderfully bright and warm, and beautiful, that it makes me joyous."
"But only for one day, and then it is all over."
"Over!" repeated the fly; "what is the meaning of all over?
Are you all over too?"
"No; I shall very likely live for thousands of your days, and my day is whole seasons long; indeed it is so long that you could never reckon it out."
"No? then I don't understand you.
You may have thousands of my days, but I have thousands of moments in which I can be merry and happy.
Does all the beauty of the world cease when you die?"
"No," replied the tree; "it will certainly last much longer,- infinitely longer than I can even think of.
"Well, then," said the little fly, "we have the same time to live; only we reckon differently."
And the little creature danced and floated in the air, rejoicing in her delicate wings of gauze and velvet, rejoicing in the balmy breezes, laden with the fragrance of clover-fields and wild roses, elder-blossoms and honeysuckle, from the garden hedges, wild thyme, primroses, and mint, and the scent of all these was so strong that the perfume almost intoxicated the little fly.
The long and beautiful day had been so full of joy and sweet delights, that when the sun sank low it felt tired of all its happiness and enjoyment.
Its wings could sustain it no longer, and gently and slowly it glided down upon the soft waving blades of grass, nodded its little head as well as it could nod, and slept peacefully and sweetly.
The fly was dead.
"Poor little Ephemera!" said the oak; "what a terribly short life!"
And so, on every summer day the dance was repeated, the same questions asked, and the same answers given.
The same thing was continued through many generations of Ephemera; all of them felt equally merry and equally happy.
The oak remained awake through the morning of spring, the noon of summer, and the evening of autumn; its time of rest, its night drew nigh- winter was coming.
Already the storms were singing, "Good-night, good-night."
Here fell a leaf and there fell a leaf.
"We will rock you and lull you.
Go to sleep, go to sleep.
We will sing you to sleep, and shake you to sleep, and it will do your old twigs good; they will even crackle with pleasure.
Sleep sweetly, sleep sweetly, it is your three-hundred-and-sixty-fifth night.
Correctly speaking, you are but a youngster in the world.
Sleep sweetly, the clouds will drop snow upon you, which will be quite a cover-lid, warm and sheltering to your feet.
Sweet sleep to you, and pleasant dreams."
And there stood the oak, stripped of all its leaves, left to rest during the whole of a long winter, and to dream many dreams of events that had happened in its life, as in the dreams of men.
The great tree had once been small; indeed, in its cradle it had been an acorn.
According to human computation, it was now in the fourth century of its existence.
It was the largest and best tree in the forest.
Its summit towered above all the other trees, and could be seen far out at sea, so that it served as a landmark to the sailors.
It had no idea how many eyes looked eagerly for it.
In its topmost branches the wood-pigeon built her nest, and the cuckoo carried out his usual vocal performances, and his well-known notes echoed amid the boughs; and in autumn, when the leaves looked like beaten copper plates, the birds of passage would come and rest upon the branches before taking their flight across the sea.
But now it was winter, the tree stood leafless, so that every one could see how crooked and bent were the branches that sprang forth from the trunk.
Crows and rooks came by turns and sat on them, and talked of the hard times which were beginning, and how difficult it was in winter to obtain food.
It was just about holy Christmas time that the tree dreamed a dream.
The tree had, doubtless, a kind of feeling that the festive time had arrived, and in his dream fancied he heard the bells ringing from all the churches round, and yet it seemed to him to be a beautiful summer's day, mild and warm.
His mighty summits was crowned with spreading fresh green foliage; the sunbeams played among the leaves and branches, and the air was full of fragrance from herb and blossom; painted butterflies chased each other; the summer flies danced around him, as if the world had been created merely for them to dance and be merry in.
All that had happened to the tree during every year of his life seemed to pass before him, as in a festive procession.
He saw the knights of olden times and noble ladies ride by through the wood on their gallant steeds, with plumes waving in their hats, and falcons on their wrists.
The hunting horn sounded, and the dogs barked.
He saw hostile warriors, in colored dresses and glittering armor, with spear and halberd, pitching their tents, and anon striking them.
The watchfires again blazed, and men sang and slept under the hospitable shelter of the tree.
He saw lovers meet in quiet happiness near him in the moonshine, and carve the initials of their names in the grayish-green bark on his trunk.
Once, but long years had intervened since then, guitars and Eolian harps had been hung on his boughs by merry travellers; now they seemed to hang there again, and he could hear their marvellous tones.
The wood-pigeons cooed as if to explain the feelings of the tree, and the cuckoo called out to tell him how many summer days he had yet to live.
Then it seemed as if new life was thrilling through every fibre of root and stem and leaf, rising even to the highest branches.
The tree felt itself stretching and spreading out, while through the root beneath the earth ran the warm vigor of life.
As he grew higher and still higher, with increased strength, his topmost boughs became broader and fuller; and in proportion to his growth, so was his self-satisfaction increased, and with it arose a joyous longing to grow higher and higher, to reach even to the warm, bright sun itself.
Already had his topmost branches pierced the clouds, which floated beneath them like troops of birds of passage, or large white swans; every leaf seemed gifted with sight, as if it possessed eyes to see.
The stars became visible in broad daylight, large and sparkling, like clear and gentle eyes.
They recalled to the memory the well-known look in the eyes of a child, or in the eyes of lovers who had once met beneath the branches of the old oak.
These were wonderful and happy moments for the old tree, full of peace and joy; and yet, amidst all this happiness, the tree felt a yearning, longing desire that all the other trees, bushes, herbs, and flowers beneath him, might be able also to rise higher, as he had done, and to see all this splendor, and experience the same happiness.
The grand, majestic oak could not be quite happy in the midst of his enjoyment, while all the rest, both great and small, were not with him.
And this feeling of yearning trembled through every branch, through every leaf, as warmly and fervently as if they had been the fibres of a human heart.
The summit of the tree waved to and fro, and bent downwards as if in his silent longing he sought for something.
Then there came to him the fragrance of thyme, followed by the more powerful scent of honeysuckle and violets; and he fancied he heard the note of the cuckoo.
At length his longing was satisfied.
Up through the clouds came the green summits of the forest trees, and beneath him, the oak saw them rising, and growing higher and higher.
Bush and herb shot upward, and some even tore themselves up by the roots to rise more quickly.
The birch-tree was the quickest of all.
Like a lightning flash the slender stem shot upwards in a zigzag line, the branches spreading around it like green gauze and banners.
Every native of the wood, even to the brown and feathery rushes, grew with the rest, while the birds ascended with the melody of song.
On a blade of grass, that fluttered in the air like a long, green ribbon, sat a grasshopper, cleaning his wings with his legs.
May beetles hummed, the bees murmured, the birds sang, each in his own way; the air was filled with the sounds of song and gladness."
"But where is the little blue flower that grows by the water?" asked the oak, "and the purple bell-flower, and the daisy?"
You see the oak wanted to have them all with him.
"Here we are, we are here," sounded in voice and song.
"But the beautiful thyme of last summer, where is that? and the lilies-of-the-valley, which last year covered the earth with their bloom? and the wild apple-tree with its lovely blossoms, and all the glory of the wood, which has flourished year after year? even what may have but now sprouted forth could be with us here."
"We are here, we are here," sounded voices higher in the air, as if they had flown there beforehand.
"Why this is beautiful, too beautiful to be believed," said the oak in a joyful tone.
"I have them all here, both great and small; not one has been forgotten.
Can such happiness be imagined?"
It seemed almost impossible.
"In heaven with the Eternal God, it can be imagined, and it is possible," sounded the reply through the air.
And the old tree, as it still grew upwards and onwards, felt that his roots were loosening themselves from the earth.
"It is right so, it is best," said the tree, "no fetters hold me now.
I can fly up to the very highest point in light and glory.
And all I love are with me, both small and great.
All- all are here."
Such was the dream of the old oak: and while he dreamed, a mighty storm came rushing over land and sea, at the holy Christmas time.
The sea rolled in great billows towards the shore.
There was a cracking and crushing heard in the tree.
The root was torn from the ground just at the moment when in his dream he fancied it was being loosened from the earth.
He fell- his three hundred and sixty-five years were passed as the single day of the Ephemera.
On the morning of Christmas-day, when the sun rose, the storm had ceased.
From all the churches sounded the festive bells, and from every hearth, even of the smallest hut, rose the smoke into the blue sky, like the smoke from the festive thank-offerings on the Druids' altars.
The sea gradually became calm, and on board a great ship that had withstood the tempest during the night, all the flags were displayed, as a token of joy and festivity.
"The tree is down!
The old oak,- our landmark on the coast!" exclaimed the sailors.
"It must have fallen in the storm of last night.
Who can replace it?
Alas! no one."
This was a funeral oration over the old tree; short, but well-meant.
There it lay stretched on the snow-covered shore, and over it sounded the notes of a song from the ship- a song of Christmas joy, and of the redemption of the soul of man, and of eternal life through Christ's atoning blood.
"Sing aloud on the happy morn, All is fulfilled, for Christ is born; With songs of joy let us loudly sing, 'Hallelujahs to Christ our King.'"
Thus sounded the old Christmas carol, and every one on board the ship felt his thoughts elevated, through the song and the prayer, even as the old tree had felt lifted up in its last, its beautiful dream on that Christmas morn.
WE are in a rich, happy house, where the master, the servants, the friends of the family are full of joy and felicity.
For on this day a son and heir has been born, and mother and child are doing well.
The lamp in the bed-chamber had been partly shaded, and the windows were covered with heavy curtains of some costly silken material.
The carpet was thick and soft, like a covering of moss.
Everything invited to slumber, everything had a charming look of repose; and so the nurse had discovered, for she slept; and well she might sleep, while everything around her told of happiness and blessing.
The guardian angel of the house leaned against the head of the bed; while over the child was spread, as it were, a net of shining stars, and each star was a pearl of happiness.
All the good stars of life had brought their gifts to the newly born; here sparkled health, wealth, fortune, and love; in short, there seemed to be everything for which man could wish on earth.
"Everything has been bestowed here," said the guardian angel.
"No, not everything," said a voice near him- the voice of the good angel of the child; "one fairy has not yet brought her gift, but she will, even if years should elapse, she will bring her gift; it is the last pearl that is wanting."
"Wanting!" cried the guardian angel; "nothing must be wanting here; and if it is so, let us fetch it; let us seek the powerful fairy; let us go to her."
"She will come, she will come some day unsought!"
"Her pearl must not be missing; it must be there, that the crown, when worn, may be complete.
Where is she to be found?
Where does she dwell?" said the guardian angel.
"Tell me, and I will procure the pearl."
"Will you do that?" replied the good angel of the child.
"Then I will lead you to her directly, wherever she may be.
She has no abiding place; she rules in the palace of the emperor, sometimes she enters the peasant's humble cot; she passes no one without leaving a trace of her presence.
She brings her gift with her, whether it is a world or a bauble.
To this child she must come.
You think that to wait for this time would be long and useless.
Well, then, let us go for this pearl- the only one lacking amidst all this wealth."
Then hand-in-hand they floated away to the spot where the fairy was now lingering.
It was in a large house with dark windows and empty rooms, in which a peculiar stillness reigned.
A whole row of windows stood open, so that the rude wind could enter at its pleasure, and the long white curtains waved to and fro in the current of air.
In the centre of one of the rooms stood an open coffin, in which lay the body of a woman, still in the bloom of youth and very beautiful.
Fresh roses were scattered over her.
The delicate folded hands and the noble face glorified in death by the solemn, earnest look, which spoke of an entrance into a better world, were alone visible.
Around the coffin stood the husband and children, a whole troop, the youngest in the father's arms.
They were come to take a last farewell look of their mother.
The husband kissed her hand, which now lay like a withered leaf, but which a short time before had been diligently employed in deeds of love for them all.
Tears of sorrow rolled down their cheeks, and fell in heavy drops on the floor, but not a word was spoken.
The silence which reigned here expressed a world of grief.
With silent steps, still sobbing, they left the room.
A burning light remained in the room, and a long, red wick rose far above the flame, which fluttered in the draught of air.
Strange men came in and placed the lid of the coffin over the dead, and drove the nails firmly in; while the blows of the hammer resounded through the house, and echoed in the hearts that were bleeding.
"Whither art thou leading me?" asked the guardian angel.
"Here dwells no fairy whose pearl could be counted amongst the best gifts of life."
"Yes, she is here; here in this sacred hour," replied the angel, pointing to a corner of the room; and there,- where in her life-time, the mother had taken her seat amidst flowers and pictures: in that spot, where she, like the blessed fairy of the house, had welcomed husband, children, and friends, and, like a sunbeam, had spread joy and cheerfulness around her, the centre and heart of them all,- there, in that very spot, sat a strange woman, clothed in long, flowing garments, and occupying the place of the dead wife and mother.
It was the fairy, and her name was "Sorrow."
A hot tear rolled into her lap, and formed itself into a pearl, glowing with all the colors of the rainbow.
The angel seized it: the, pearl glittered like a star with seven-fold radiance.
The pearl of Sorrow, the last, which must not be wanting, increases the lustre, and explains the meaning of all the other pearls.
"Do you see the shimmer of the rainbow, which unites earth to heaven?"
So has there been a bridge built between this world and the next.
Through the night of the grave we gaze upwards beyond the stars to the end of all things.
Then we glance at the pearl of Sorrow, in which are concealed the wings which shall carry us away to eternal happiness.
IN a village there once lived two men who had the same name.
They were both called Claus.
One of them had four horses, but the other had only one; so to distinguish them, people called the owner of the four horses, "Great Claus," and he who had only one, "Little Claus."
Now we shall hear what happened to them, for this is a true story.
Through the whole week, Little Claus was obliged to plough for Great Claus, and lend him his one horse; and once a week, on a Sunday, Great Claus lent him all his four horses.
Then how Little Claus would smack his whip over all five horses, they were as good as his own on that one day.
The sun shone brightly, and the church bells were ringing merrily as the people passed by, dressed in their best clothes, with their prayer-books under their arms.
They were going to hear the clergyman preach.
They looked at Little Claus ploughing with his five horses, and he was so proud that he smacked his whip, and said, "Gee-up, my five horses."
"You must not say that," said Big Claus; "for only one of them belongs to you."
But Little Claus soon forgot what he ought to say, and when any one passed he would call out, "Gee-up, my five horses!"
"Now I must beg you not to say that again," said Big Claus; "for if you do, I shall hit your horse on the head, so that he will drop dead on the spot, and there will be an end of him."
"I promise you I will not say it any more," said the other; but as soon as people came by, nodding to him, and wishing him "Good day," he became so pleased, and thought how grand it looked to have five horses ploughing in his field, that he cried out again, "Gee-up, all my horses!"
"I'll gee-up your horses for you," said Big Claus; and seizing a hammer, he struck the one horse of Little Claus on the head, and he fell dead instantly.
"Oh, now I have no horse at all, said Little Claus, weeping.
But after a while he took off the dead horse's skin, and hung the hide to dry in the wind.
Then he put the dry skin into a bag, and, placing it over his shoulder, went out into the next town to sell the horse's skin.
He had a very long way to go, and had to pass through a dark, gloomy forest.
Presently a storm arose, and he lost his way, and before he discovered the right path, evening came on, and it was still a long way to the town, and too far to return home before night.
Near the road stood a large farmhouse.
The shutters outside the windows were closed, but lights shone through the crevices at the top.
"I might get permission to stay here for the night," thought Little Claus; so he went up to the door and knocked.
The farmer's wife opened the door; but when she heard what he wanted, she told him to go away, as her husband would not allow her to admit strangers.
"Then I shall be obliged to lie out here," said Little Claus to himself, as the farmer's wife shut the door in his face.
Near to the farmhouse stood a large haystack, and between it and the house was a small shed, with a thatched roof.
"I can lie up there," said Little Claus, as he saw the roof; "it will make a famous bed, but I hope the stork will not fly down and bite my legs;" for on it stood a living stork, whose nest was in the roof.
So Little Claus climbed to the roof of the shed, and while he turned himself to get comfortable, he discovered that the wooden shutters, which were closed, did not reach to the tops of the windows of the farmhouse, so that he could see into a room, in which a large table was laid out with wine, roast meat, and a splendid fish.
The farmer's wife and the sexton were sitting at the table together; and she filled his glass, and helped him plenteously to fish, which appeared to be his favorite dish.
"If I could only get some, too," thought Little Claus; and then, as he stretched his neck towards the window he spied a large, beautiful pie,- indeed they had a glorious feast before them.
At this moment he heard some one riding down the road, towards the farmhouse.
It was the farmer returning home.
He was a good man, but still he had a very strange prejudice,- he could not bear the sight of a sexton.
If one appeared before him, he would put himself in a terrible rage.
In consequence of this dislike, the sexton had gone to visit the farmer's wife during her husband's absence from home, and the good woman had placed before him the best she had in the house to eat.
When she heard the farmer coming she was frightened, and begged the sexton to hide himself in a large empty chest that stood in the room.
He did so, for he knew her husband could not endure the sight of a sexton.
The woman then quickly put away the wine, and hid all the rest of the nice things in the oven; for if her husband had seen them he would have asked what they were brought out for.
"Oh, dear," sighed Little Claus from the top of the shed, as he saw all the good things disappear.
"Is any one up there?" asked the farmer, looking up and discovering Little Claus.
"Why are you lying up there?
Come down, and come into the house with me."
So Little Claus came down and told the farmer how he had lost his way and begged for a night's lodging.
"All right," said the farmer; "but we must have something to eat first."
The woman received them both very kindly, laid the cloth on a large table, and placed before them a dish of porridge.
The farmer was very hungry, and ate his porridge with a good appetite, but Little Claus could not help thinking of the nice roast meat, fish and pies, which he knew were in the oven.
Under the table, at his feet, lay the sack containing the horse's skin, which he intended to sell at the next town.
Now Little Claus did not relish the porridge at all, so he trod with his foot on the sack under the table, and the dry skin squeaked quite loud.
"Hush!" said Little Claus to his sack, at the same time treading upon it again, till it squeaked louder than before.
"Hallo! what have you got in your sack!" asked the farmer.
"Oh, it is a conjuror," said Little Claus; "and he says we need not eat porridge, for he has conjured the oven full of roast meat, fish, and pie."
"Wonderful!" cried the farmer, starting up and opening the oven door; and there lay all the nice things hidden by the farmer's wife, but which he supposed had been conjured there by the wizard under the table.
The woman dared not say anything; so she placed the things before them, and they both ate of the fish, the meat, and the pastry.
Then Little Claus trod again upon his sack, and it squeaked as before.
"What does he say now?" asked the farmer.
"He says," replied Little Claus, "that there are three bottles of wine for us, standing in the corner, by the oven."
So the woman was obliged to bring out the wine also, which she had hidden, and the farmer drank it till he became quite merry.
He would have liked such a conjuror as Little Claus carried in his sack.
"Could he conjure up the evil one?" asked the farmer.
"I should like to see him now, while I am so merry."
"Oh, yes!" replied Little Claus, "my conjuror can do anything I ask him,- can you not?" he asked, treading at the same time on the sack till it squeaked.
"Do you hear? he answers 'Yes,' but he fears that we shall not like to look at him."
"Oh, I am not afraid.
What will he be like?"
"Well, he is very much like a sexton."
"Ha!" said the farmer, "then he must be ugly.
Do you know I cannot endure the sight of a sexton.
However, that doesn't matter, I shall know who it is; so I shall not mind.
Now then, I have got up my courage, but don't let him come too near me."
"Stop, I must ask the conjuror," said Little Claus; so he trod on the bag, and stooped his ear down to listen.
"What does he say?"
"He says that you must go and open that large chest which stands in the corner, and you will see the evil one crouching down inside; but you must hold the lid firmly, that he may not slip out."
"Will you come and help me hold it?" said the farmer, going towards the chest in which his wife had hidden the sexton, who now lay inside, very much frightened.
The farmer opened the lid a very little way, and peeped in.
"Oh," cried he, springing backwards, "I saw him, and he is exactly like our sexton.
How dreadful it is!"
So after that he was obliged to drink again, and they sat and drank till far into the night.
"You must sell your conjuror to me," said the farmer; "ask as much as you like, I will pay it; indeed I would give you directly a whole bushel of gold."
"No, indeed, I cannot," said Little Claus; "only think how much profit I could make out of this conjuror."
"But I should like to have him," said the fanner, still continuing his entreaties.
"Well," said Little Claus at length, "you have been so good as to give me a night's lodging, I will not refuse you; you shall have the conjuror for a bushel of money, but I will have quite full measure."
"So you shall," said the farmer; "but you must take away the chest as well.
I would not have it in the house another hour; there is no knowing if he may not be still there."
So Little Claus gave the farmer the sack containing the dried horse's skin, and received in exchange a bushel of money- full measure.
The farmer also gave him a wheelbarrow on which to carry away the chest and the gold.
"Farewell," said Little Claus, as he went off with his money and the great chest, in which the sexton lay still concealed.
On one side of the forest was a broad, deep river, the water flowed so rapidly that very few were able to swim against the stream.
A new bridge had lately been built across it, and in the middle of this bridge Little Claus stopped, and said, loud enough to be heard by the sexton, "Now what shall I do with this stupid chest; it is as heavy as if it were full of stones: I shall be tired if I roll it any farther, so I may as well throw it in the river; if it swims after me to my house, well and good, and if not, it will not much matter."
So he seized the chest in his hand and lifted it up a little, as if he were going to throw it into the water.
"No, leave it alone," cried the sexton from within the chest; "let me out first."
"Oh," exclaimed Little Claus, pretending to be frightened, "he is in there still, is he?
I must throw him into the river, that he may be drowned."
"Oh, no; oh, no," cried the sexton; "I will give you a whole bushel full of money if you will let me go.
"Why, that is another matter," said Little Claus, opening the chest.
The sexton crept out, pushed the empty chest into the water, and went to his house, then he measured out a whole bushel full of gold for Little Claus, who had already received one from the farmer, so that now he had a barrow full.
"I have been well paid for my horse," said he to himself when he reached home, entered his own room, and emptied all his money into a heap on the floor.
"How vexed Great Claus will be when he finds out how rich I have become all through my one horse; but I shall not tell him exactly how it all happened."
Then he sent a boy to Great Claus to borrow a bushel measure.
"What can he want it for?" thought Great Claus; so he smeared the bottom of the measure with tar, that some of whatever was put into it might stick there and remain.
And so it happened; for when the measure returned, three new silver florins were sticking to it.
"What does this mean?" said Great Claus; so he ran off directly to Little Claus, and asked, "Where did you get so much money?"
"Oh, for my horse's skin, I sold it yesterday."
"It was certainly well paid for then," said Great Claus; and he ran home to his house, seized a hatchet, and knocked all his four horses on the head, flayed off their skins, and took them to the town to sell.
"Skins, skins, who'll buy skins?" he cried, as he went through the streets.
All the shoemakers and tanners came running, and asked how much he wanted for them.
"A bushel of money, for each," replied Great Claus.
"Are you mad?" they all cried; "do you think we have money to spend by the bushel?"
"Skins, skins," he cried again, "who'll buy skins?" but to all who inquired the price, his answer was, "a bushel of money."
"He is making fools of us," said they all; then the shoemakers took their straps, and the tanners their leather aprons, and began to beat Great Claus.
"Skins, skins!" they cried, mocking him; "yes, we'll mark your skin for you, till it is black and blue."
"Out of the town with him," said they.
And Great Claus was obliged to run as fast as he could, he had never before been so thoroughly beaten.
"Ah," said he, as he came to his house; "Little Claus shall pay me for this; I will beat him to death."
Meanwhile the old grandmother of Little Claus died.
She had been cross, unkind, and really spiteful to him; but he was very sorry, and took the dead woman and laid her in his warm bed to see if he could bring her to life again.
There he determined that she should lie the whole night, while he seated himself in a chair in a corner of the room as he had often done before.
During the night, as he sat there, the door opened, and in came Great Claus with a hatchet.
He knew well where Little Claus's bed stood; so he went right up to it, and struck the old grandmother on the head. thinking it must be Little Claus.
"There," cried he, "now you cannot make a fool of me again;" and then he went home.
"That is a very wicked man," thought Little Claus; "he meant to kill me.
It is a good thing for my old grandmother that she was already dead, or he would have taken her life."
Then he dressed his old grandmother in her best clothes, borrowed a horse of his neighbor, and harnessed it to a cart.
Then he placed the old woman on the back seat, so that she might not fall out as he drove, and rode away through the wood.
By sunrise they reached a large inn, where Little Claus stopped and went to get something to eat.
The landlord was a rich man, and a good man too; but as passionate as if he had been made of pepper and snuff.
"Good morning," said he to Little Claus; "you are come betimes to-day."
"Yes," said Little Claus; "I am going to the town with my old grandmother; she is sitting at the back of the wagon, but I cannot bring her into the room.
Will you take her a glass of mead? but you must speak very loud, for she cannot hear well."
"Yes, certainly I will," replied the landlord; and, pouring out a glass of mead, he carried it out to the dead grandmother, who sat upright in the cart.
"Here is a glass of mead from your grandson," said the landlord.
The dead woman did not answer a word, but sat quite still.
"Do you not hear?" cried the landlord as loud as he could; "here is a glass of mead from your grandson."
Again and again he bawled it out, but as she did not stir he flew into a passion, and threw the glass of mead in her face; it struck her on the nose, and she fell backwards out of the cart, for she was only seated there, not tied in.
Hallo!" cried Little Claus, rushing out of the door, and seizing hold of the landlord by the throat; "you have killed my grandmother; see, here is a great hole in her forehead."
"Oh, how unfortunate," said the landlord, wringing his hands.
"This all comes of my fiery temper.
Dear Little Claus, I will give you a bushel of money; I will bury your grandmother as if she were my own; only keep silent, or else they will cut off my head, and that would be disagreeable."
So it happened that Little Claus received another bushel of money, and the landlord buried his old grandmother as if she had been his own.
When Little Claus reached home again, he immediately sent a boy to Great Claus, requesting him to lend him a bushel measure.
"How is this?" thought Great Claus; "did I not kill him?
I must go and see for myself."
So he went to Little Claus, and took the bushel measure with him.
"How did you get all this money?" asked Great Claus, staring with wide open eyes at his neighbor's treasures.
"You killed my grandmother instead of me," said Little Claus; "so I have sold her for a bushel of money."
"That is a good price at all events," said Great Claus.
So he went home, took a hatchet, and killed his old grandmother with one blow.
Then he placed her on a cart, and drove into the town to the apothecary, and asked him if he would buy a dead body.
"Whose is it, and where did you get it?" asked the apothecary.
"It is my grandmother," he replied; "I killed her with a blow, that I might get a bushel of money for her."
"Heaven preserve us!" cried the apothecary, "you are out of your mind.
Don't say such things, or you will lose your head."
And then he talked to him seriously about the wicked deed he had done, and told him that such a wicked man would surely be punished.
Great Claus got so frightened that he rushed out of the surgery, jumped into the cart, whipped up his horses, and drove home quickly.
The apothecary and all the people thought him mad, and let him drive where he liked.
"You shall pay for this," said Great Claus, as soon as he got into the highroad, "that you shall, Little Claus."
So as soon as he reached home he took the largest sack he could find and went over to Little Claus.
"You have played me another trick," said he.
"First, I killed all my horses, and then my old grandmother, and it is all your fault; but you shall not make a fool of me any more."
So he laid hold of Little Claus round the body, and pushed him into the sack, which he took on his shoulders, saying, "Now I'm going to drown you in the river.
He had a long way to go before he reached the river, and Little Claus was not a very light weight to carry.
The road led by the church, and as they passed he could hear the organ playing and the people singing beautifully.
Great Claus put down the sack close to the church-door, and thought he might as well go in and hear a psalm before he went any farther.
Little Claus could not possibly get out of the sack, and all the people were in church; so in he went.
"Oh dear, oh dear," sighed Little Claus in the sack, as he turned and twisted about; but he found he could not loosen the string with which it was tied.
Presently an old cattle driver, with snowy hair, passed by, carrying a large staff in his hand, with which he drove a large herd of cows and oxen before him.
They stumbled against the sack in which lay Little Claus, and turned it over.
"Oh dear," sighed Little Claus, "I am very young, yet I am soon going to heaven."
"And I, poor fellow," said the drover, "I who am so old already, cannot get there."
"Open the sack," cried Little Claus; "creep into it instead of me, and you will soon be there."
"With all my heart," replied the drover, opening the sack, from which sprung Little Claus as quickly as possible.
"Will you take care of my cattle?" said the old man, as he crept into the bag.
"Yes," said Little Claus, and he tied up the sack, and then walked off with all the cows and oxen.
When Great Claus came out of church, he took up the sack, and placed it on his shoulders.
It appeared to have become lighter, for the old drover was not half so heavy as Little Claus.
"How light he seems now," said he.
"Ah, it is because I have been to a church."
So he walked on to the river, which was deep and broad, and threw the sack containing the old drover into the water, believing it to be Little Claus.
"There you may lie!" he exclaimed; "you will play me no more tricks now."
Then he turned to go home, but when he came to a place where two roads crossed, there was Little Claus driving the cattle.
"How is this?" said Great Claus.
"Did I not drown you just now?"
"Yes," said Little Claus; "you threw me into the river about half an hour ago."
"But wherever did you get all these fine beasts?" asked Great Claus.
"These beasts are sea-cattle," replied Little Claus.
"I'll tell you the whole story, and thank you for drowning me; I am above you now, I am really very rich.
I was frightened, to be sure, while I lay tied up in the sack, and the wind whistled in my ears when you threw me into the river from the bridge, and I sank to the bottom immediately; but I did not hurt myself, for I fell upon beautifully soft grass which grows down there; and in a moment, the sack opened, and the sweetest little maiden came towards me.
She had snow-white robes, and a wreath of green leaves on her wet hair.
She took me by the hand, and said, 'So you are come, Little Claus, and here are some cattle for you to begin with.
About a mile farther on the road, there is another herd for you.'
Then I saw that the river formed a great highway for the people who live in the sea.
They were walking and driving here and there from the sea to the land at the, spot where the river terminates.
The bed of the river was covered with the loveliest flowers and sweet fresh grass.
The fish swam past me as rapidly as the birds do here in the air.
How handsome all the people were, and what fine cattle were grazing on the hills and in the valleys!"
"But why did you come up again," said Great Claus, "if it was all so beautiful down there?
I should not have done so?"
"Well," said Little Claus, "it was good policy on my part; you heard me say just now that I was told by the sea-maiden to go a mile farther on the road, and I should find a whole herd of cattle.
By the road she meant the river, for she could not travel any other way; but I knew the winding of the river, and how it bends, sometimes to the right and sometimes to the left, and it seemed a long way, so I chose a shorter one; and, by coming up to the land, and then driving across the fields back again to the river, I shall save half a mile, and get all my cattle more quickly."
"What a lucky fellow you are!" exclaimed Great Claus.
"Do you think I should get any sea-cattle if I went down to the bottom of the river?"
"Yes, I think so," said Little Claus; "but I cannot carry you there in a sack, you are too heavy.
However if you will go there first, and then creep into a sack, I will throw you in with the greatest pleasure."
"Thank you," said Great Claus; "but remember, if I do not get any sea-cattle down there I shall come up again and give you a good thrashing."
"No, now, don't be too fierce about it!" said Little Claus, as they walked on towards the river.
When they approached it, the cattle, who were very thirsty, saw the stream, and ran down to drink.
"See what a hurry they are in," said Little Claus, "they are longing to get down again," "Come, help me, make haste," said Great Claus; "or you'll get beaten."
So he crept into a large sack, which had been lying across the back of one of the oxen.
"Put in a stone," said Great Claus, "or I may not sink."
"Oh, there's not much fear of that," he replied; still he put a large stone into the bag, and then tied it tightly, and gave it a push.
"Plump!"
In went Great Claus, and immediately sank to the bottom of the river.
"I'm afraid he will not find any cattle," said Little Claus, and then he drove his own beasts homewards.
THERE was once a little boy who had caught cold; he had gone out and got wet feet.
Nobody had the least idea how it had happened; the weather was quite dry.
His mother undressed him, put him to bed, and ordered the teapot to be brought in, that she might make him a good cup of tea from the elder-tree blossoms, which is so warming.
At the same time, the kind-hearted old man who lived by himself in the upper storey of the house came in; he led a lonely life, for he had no wife and children; but he loved the children of others very much, and he could tell so many fairy tales and stories, that it was a pleasure to hear him.
"Now, drink your tea," said the mother; "perhaps you will hear a story."
"Yes, if I only knew a fresh one," said the old man, and nodded smilingly.
"But how did the little fellow get his wet feet?" he then asked.
"That," replied the mother, "nobody can understand."
"Will you tell me a story?" asked the boy.
"Yes, if you can tell me as nearly as possible how deep is the gutter in the little street where you go to school."
"Just half as high as my top-boots," replied the boy; "but then I must stand in the deepest holes."
"There, now we know where you got your wet feet," said the old man.
"I ought to tell you a story, but the worst of it is, I do not know any more."
"You can make one up," said the little boy.
"Mother says you can tell a fairy tale about anything you look at or touch."
"That is all very well, but such tales or stories are worth nothing!
No, the right ones come by themselves and knock at my forehead saying: 'Here I am.'"
"Will not one knock soon?" asked the boy; and the mother smiled while she put elder-tree blossoms into the teapot and poured boiling water over them.
"Pray, tell me a story."
"Yes, if stories came by themselves; they are so proud, they only come when they please.- But wait," he said suddenly, "there is one.
Look at the teapot; there is a story in it now."
And the little boy looked at the teapot; the lid rose up gradually, the elder-tree blossoms sprang forth one by one, fresh and white; long boughs came forth; even out of the spout they grew up in all directions, and formed a bush- nay, a large elder tree, which stretched its branches up to the bed and pushed the curtains aside; and there were so many blossoms and such a sweet fragrance!
In the midst of the tree sat a kindly-looking old woman with a strange dress; it was as green as the leaves, and trimmed with large white blossoms, so that it was difficult to say whether it was real cloth, or the leaves and blossoms of the elder-tree.
"What is this woman's name?" asked the little boy.
"Well, the Romans and Greeks used to call her a Dryad," said the old man; "but we do not understand that.
Out in the sailors' quarter they give her a better name; there she is called elder-tree mother.
Now, you must attentively listen to her and look at the beautiful elder-tree.
"Just such a large tree, covered with flowers, stands out there; it grew in the corner of an humble little yard; under this tree sat two old people one afternoon in the beautiful sunshine.
He was an old, old sailor, and she his old wife; they had already great-grandchildren, and were soon to celebrate their golden wedding, but they could not remember the date, and the elder-tree mother was sitting in the tree and looked as pleased as this one here.
'I know very well when the golden wedding is to take place,' she said; but they did not hear it- they were talking of bygone days.
"'Well, do you remember?' said the old sailor, 'when we were quite small and used to run about and play- it was in the very same yard where we now are- we used to put little branches into the ground and make a garden.'
"'Yes,' said the old woman, 'I remember it very well; we used to water the branches, and one of them, an elder-tree branch, took root, and grew and became the large tree under which we are now sitting as old people.'
"'Certainly, you are right,' he said; 'and in yonder corner stood a large water-tub; there I used to sail my boat, which I had cut out myself- it sailed so well; but soon I had to sail somewhere else.'
"'But first we went to school to learn something,' she said, 'and then we were confirmed; we both wept on that day, but in the afternoon we went out hand in hand, and ascended the high round tower and looked out into the wide world right over Copenhagen and the sea; then we walked to Fredericksburg, where the king and the queen were sailing about in their magnificent boat on the canals.'
"'But soon I had to sail about somewhere else, and for many years I was travelling about far away from home.'
"'And I often cried about you, for I was afraid lest you were drowned and lying at the bottom of the sea.
Many a time I got up in the night and looked if the weathercock had turned; it turned often, but you did not return.
I remember one day distinctly: the rain was pouring down in torrents; the dust-man had come to the house where I was in service; I went down with the dust-bin and stood for a moment in the doorway, and looked at the dreadful weather.
Then the postman gave me a letter; it was from you.
Heavens! how that letter had travelled about.
I tore it open and read it; I cried and laughed at the same time, and was so happy!
Therein was written that you were staying in the hot countries, where the coffee grows.
These must be marvellous countries.
You said a great deal about them, and I read all while the rain was pouring down and I was standing there with the dust-bin.
Then suddenly some one put his arm round my waist-' "'Yes, and you gave him a hearty smack on the cheek,' said the old man.
"'I did not know that it was you- you had come as quickly as your letter; and you looked so handsome, and so you do still.
You had a large yellow silk handkerchief in your pocket and a shining hat on.
You looked so well, and the weather in the street was horrible!'
"'Then we married,' he said.
'Do you remember how we got our first boy, and then Mary, Niels, Peter, John, and Christian?' 'Oh yes; and now they have all grown up, and have become useful members of society, whom everybody cares for.'
"'And their children have had children again,' said the old sailor.
'Yes, these are children's children, and they are strong and healthy.
If I am not mistaken, our wedding took place at this season of the year.'
"'Yes, to-day is your golden wedding-day,' said the little elder-tree mother, stretching her head down between the two old people, who thought that she was their neighbour who was nodding to them; they looked at each other and clasped hands.
Soon afterwards the children and grandchildren came, for they knew very well that it was the golden wedding-day; they had already wished them joy and happiness in the morning, but the old people had forgotten it, although they remembered things so well that had passed many, many years ago.
The elder-tree smelt strongly, and the setting sun illuminated the faces of the two old people, so that they looked quite rosy; the youngest of the grandchildren danced round them, and cried merrily that there would be a feast in the evening, for they were to have hot potatoes; and the elder mother nodded in the tree and cried 'Hooray' with the others."
"But that was no fairy tale," said the little boy who had listened to it.
"You will presently understand it," said the old man who told the story.
"Let us ask little elder-tree mother about it."
"That was no fairy tale," said the little elder-tree mother; "but now it comes!
Real life furnishes us with subjects for the most wonderful fairy tales; for otherwise my beautiful elder-bush could not have grown forth out of the teapot."
And then she took the little boy out of bed and placed him on her bosom; the elder branches, full of blossoms, closed over them; it was as if they sat in a thick leafy bower which flew with them through the air; it was beautiful beyond all description.
The little elder-tree mother had suddenly become a charming young girl, but her dress was still of the same green material, covered with white blossoms, as the elder-tree mother had worn; she had a real elder blossom on her bosom, and a wreath of the same flowers was wound round her curly golden hair; her eyes were so large and so blue that it was wonderful to look at them.
She and the boy kissed each other, and then they were of the same age and felt the same joys.
They walked hand in hand out of the bower, and now stood at home in a beautiful flower garden.
Near the green lawn the father's walking-stick was tied to a post.
There was life in this stick for the little ones, for as soon as they seated themselves upon it the polished knob turned into a neighing horse's head, a long black mane was fluttering in the wind, and four strong slender legs grew out.
The animal was fiery and spirited; they galloped round the lawn.
"Hooray! now we shall ride far away, many miles!" said the boy; "we shall ride to the nobleman's estate where we were last year."
And they rode round the lawn again, and the little girl, who, as we know, was no other than the little elder-tree mother, continually cried, "Now we are in the country!
Do you see the farmhouse there, with the large baking stove, which projects like a gigantic egg out of the wall into the road?
The elder-tree spreads its branches over it, and the cock struts about and scratches for the hens.
Look how proud he is!
Now we are near the church; it stands on a high hill, under the spreading oak trees; one of them is half dead!
Now we are at the smithy, where the fire roars and the half-naked men beat with their hammers so that the sparks fly far and wide.
Let's be off to the beautiful farm!"
And they passed by everything the little girl, who was sitting behind on the stick, described, and the boy saw it, and yet they only went round the lawn.
Then they played in a side-walk, and marked out a little garden on the ground; she took elder-blossoms out of her hair and planted them, and they grew exactly like those the old people planted when they were children, as we have heard before.
They walked about hand in hand, just as the old couple had done when they were little, but they did not go to the round tower nor to the Fredericksburg garden.
No; the little girl seized the boy round the waist, and then they flew far into the country.
It was spring and it became summer, it was autumn and it became winter, and thousands of pictures reflected themselves in the boy's eyes and heart, and the little girl always sang again, "You will never forget that!"
And during their whole flight the elder-tree smelt so sweetly; he noticed the roses and the fresh beeches, but the elder-tree smelt much stronger, for the flowers were fixed on the little girl's bosom, against which the boy often rested his head during the flight.
"It is beautiful here in spring," said the little girl, and they were again in the green beechwood, where the thyme breathed forth sweet fragrance at their feet, and the pink anemones looked lovely in the green moss.
"Oh! that it were always spring in the fragrant beechwood!"
"Here it is splendid in summer!" she said, and they passed by old castles of the age of chivalry.
The high walls and indented battlements were reflected in the water of the ditches, on which swans were swimming and peering into the old shady avenues.
The corn waved in the field like a yellow sea.
Red and yellow flowers grew in the ditches, wild hops and convolvuli in full bloom in the hedges.
In the evening the moon rose, large and round, and the hayricks in the meadows smelt sweetly.
"One can never forget it!"
"Here it is beautiful in autumn!" said the little girl, and the atmosphere seemed twice as high and blue, while the wood shone with crimson, green, and gold.
The hounds were running off, flocks of wild fowl flew screaming over the barrows, while the bramble bushes twined round the old stones.
The dark-blue sea was covered with white-sailed ships, and in the barns sat old women, girls, and children picking hops into a large tub; the young ones sang songs, and the old people told fairy tales about goblins and sorcerers.
It could not be more pleasant anywhere.
"Here it's agreeable in winter!" said the little girl, and all the trees were covered with hoar-frost, so that they looked like white coral.
The snow creaked under one's feet, as if one had new boots on.
One shooting star after another traversed the sky.
In the room the Christmas tree was lit, and there were song and merriment.
In the peasant's cottage the violin sounded, and games were played for apple quarters; even the poorest child said, "It is beautiful in winter!"
And indeed it was beautiful!
And the little girl showed everything to the boy, and the elder-tree continued to breathe forth sweet perfume, while the red flag with the white cross was streaming in the wind; it was the flag under which the old sailor had served.
The boy became a youth; he was to go out into the wide world, far away to the countries where the coffee grows.
But at parting the little girl took an elder-blossom from her breast and gave it to him as a keepsake.
He placed it in his prayer-book, and when he opened it in distant lands it was always at the place where the flower of remembrance was lying; and the more he looked at it the fresher it became, so that he could almost smell the fragrance of the woods at home.
He distinctly saw the little girl, with her bright blue eyes, peeping out from behind the petals, and heard her whispering, "Here it is beautiful in spring, in summer, in autumn, and in winter," and hundreds of pictures passed through his mind.
Thus many years rolled by.
He had now become an old man, and was sitting, with his old wife, under an elder-tree in full bloom.
They held each other by the hand exactly as the great-grandfather and the great-grandmother had done outside, and, like them, they talked about bygone days and of their golden wedding.
The little girl with the blue eyes and elder-blossoms in her hair was sitting high up in the tree, and nodded to them, saying, "To-day is the golden wedding!"
And then she took two flowers out of her wreath and kissed them.
They glittered at first like silver, then like gold, and when she placed them on the heads of the old people each flower became a golden crown.
There they both sat like a king and queen under the sweet-smelling tree, which looked exactly like an elder-tree, and he told his wife the story of the elder-tree mother as it had been told him when he was a little boy.
They were both of opinion that the story contained many points like their own, and these similarities they liked best.
"Yes, so it is," said the little girl in the tree.
"Some call me Little Elder-tree Mother; others a Dryad; but my real name is 'Remembrance.'
It is I who sit in the tree which grows and grows.
I can remember things and tell stories!
But let's see if you have still got your flower."
And the old man opened his prayer-book; the elder-blossom was still in it, and as fresh as if it had only just been put in.
Remembrance nodded, and the two old people, with the golden crowns on their heads, sat in the glowing evening sun.
They closed their eyes and- and- Well, now the story is ended!
The little boy in bed did not know whether he had dreamt it or heard it told; the teapot stood on the table, but no elder-tree was growing out of it, and the old man who had told the story was on the point of leaving the room, and he did go out.
"How beautiful it was!" said the little boy.
"Mother, I have been to warm countries!"
"I believe you," said the mother; "if one takes two cups of hot elder-tea it is quite natural that one gets into warm countries!"
And she covered him up well, so that he might not take cold.
"You have slept soundly while I was arguing with the old man whether it was a story or a fairy tale!"
"And what has become of the little elder-tree mother?" asked the boy.
"She is in the teapot," said the mother; "and there she may remain."
"My poor flowers are quite dead," said little Ida, "they were so pretty yesterday evening, and now all the leaves are hanging down quite withered.
What do they do that for," she asked, of the student who sat on the sofa; she liked him very much, he could tell the most amusing stories, and cut out the prettiest pictures; hearts, and ladies dancing, castles with doors that opened, as well as flowers; he was a delightful student.
"Why do the flowers look so faded to-day?" she asked again, and pointed to her nosegay, which was quite withered.
"Don't you know what is the matter with them?" said the student.
"The flowers were at a ball last night, and therefore, it is no wonder they hang their heads."
"But flowers cannot dance?" cried little Ida.
"Yes indeed, they can," replied the student.
"When it grows dark, and everybody is asleep, they jump about quite merrily.
They have a ball almost every night."
"Can children go to these balls?"
"Yes," said the student, "little daisies and lilies of the valley."
"Where do the beautiful flowers dance?" asked little Ida.
"Have you not often seen the large castle outside the gates of the town, where the king lives in summer, and where the beautiful garden is full of flowers?
And have you not fed the swans with bread when they swam towards you?
Well, the flowers have capital balls there, believe me."
"I was in the garden out there yesterday with my mother," said Ida, "but all the leaves were off the trees, and there was not a single flower left.
Where are they?
I used to see so many in the summer."
"They are in the castle," replied the student.
"You must know that as soon as the king and all the court are gone into the town, the flowers run out of the garden into the castle, and you should see how merry they are.
The two most beautiful roses seat themselves on the throne, and are called the king and queen, then all the red cockscombs range themselves on each side, and bow, these are the lords-in-waiting.
After that the pretty flowers come in, and there is a grand ball.
The blue violets represent little naval cadets, and dance with hyacinths and crocuses which they call young ladies.
The tulips and tiger-lilies are the old ladies who sit and watch the dancing, so that everything may be conducted with order and propriety."
"But," said little Ida, "is there no one there to hurt the flowers for dancing in the king's castle?"
"No one knows anything about it," said the student.
"The old steward of the castle, who has to watch there at night, sometimes comes in; but he carries a great bunch of keys, and as soon as the flowers hear the keys rattle, they run and hide themselves behind the long curtains, and stand quite still, just peeping their heads out.
Then the old steward says, 'I smell flowers here,' but he cannot see them."
"Oh how capital," said little Ida, clapping her hands.
"Should I be able to see these flowers?"
"Yes," said the student, "mind you think of it the next time you go out, no doubt you will see them, if you peep through the window.
I did so to-day, and I saw a long yellow lily lying stretched out on the sofa.
She was a court lady."
"Can the flowers from the Botanical Gardens go to these balls?" asked Ida.
"It is such a distance!"
"Oh yes," said the student 'whenever they like, for they can fly.
Have you not seen those beautiful red, white. and yellow butterflies, that look like flowers?
They were flowers once.
They have flown off their stalks into the air, and flap their leaves as if they were little wings to make them fly.
Then, if they behave well, they obtain permission to fly about during the day, instead of being obliged to sit still on their stems at home, and so in time their leaves become real wings.
It may be, however, that the flowers in the Botanical Gardens have never been to the king's palace, and, therefore, they know nothing of the merry doings at night, which take place there.
I will tell you what to do, and the botanical professor, who lives close by here, will be so surprised.
You know him very well, do you not?
Well, next time you go into his garden, you must tell one of the flowers that there is going to be a grand ball at the castle, then that flower will tell all the others, and they will fly away to the castle as soon as possible.
And when the professor walks into his garden, there will not be a single flower left.
How he will wonder what has become of them!"
"But how can one flower tell another?
Flowers cannot speak?"
"No, certainly not," replied the student; "but they can make signs.
Have you not often seen that when the wind blows they nod at one another, and rustle all their green leaves?"
"Can the professor understand the signs?" asked Ida.
"Yes, to be sure he can.
He went one morning into his garden, and saw a stinging nettle making signs with its leaves to a beautiful red carnation.
It was saying, 'You are so pretty, I like you very much.'
But the professor did not approve of such nonsense, so he clapped his hands on the nettle to stop it.
Then the leaves, which are its fingers, stung him so sharply that he has never ventured to touch a nettle since."
"Oh how funny!" said Ida, and she laughed.
"How can anyone put such notions into a child's head?" said a tiresome lawyer, who had come to pay a visit, and sat on the sofa.
He did not like the student, and would grumble when he saw him cutting out droll or amusing pictures.
Sometimes it would be a man hanging on a gibbet and holding a heart in his hand as if he had been stealing hearts.
Sometimes it was an old witch riding through the air on a broom and carrying her husband on her nose.
But the lawyer did not like such jokes, and he would say as he had just said, "How can anyone put such nonsense into a child's head! what absurd fancies there are!"
But to little Ida, all these stories which the student told her about the flowers, seemed very droll, and she thought over them a great deal.
The flowers did hang their heads, because they had been dancing all night, and were very tired, and most likely they were ill.
Then she took them into the room where a number of toys lay on a pretty little table, and the whole of the table drawer besides was full of beautiful things.
Her doll Sophy lay in the doll's bed asleep, and little Ida said to her, "You must really get up Sophy, and be content to lie in the drawer to-night; the poor flowers are ill, and they must lie in your bed, then perhaps they will get well again."
So she took the doll out, who looked quite cross, and said not a single word, for she was angry at being turned out of her bed.
Ida placed the flowers in the doll's bed, and drew the quilt over them.
Then she told them to lie quite still and be good, while she made some tea for them, so that they might be quite well and able to get up the next morning.
And she drew the curtains close round the little bed, so that the sun might not shine in their eyes.
During the whole evening she could not help thinking of what the student had told her.
And before she went to bed herself, she was obliged to peep behind the curtains into the garden where all her mother's beautiful flowers grew, hyacinths and tulips, and many others.
Then she whispered to them quite softly, "I know you are going to a ball to-night."
But the flowers appeared as if they did not understand, and not a leaf moved; still Ida felt quite sure she knew all about it.
She lay awake a long time after she was in bed, thinking how pretty it must be to see all the beautiful flowers dancing in the king's garden.
"I wonder if my flowers have really been there," she said to herself, and then she fell asleep.
In the night she awoke; she had been dreaming of the flowers and of the student, as well as of the tiresome lawyer who found fault with him.
It was quite still in Ida's bedroom; the night-lamp burnt on the table, and her father and mother were asleep.
"I wonder if my flowers are still lying in Sophy's bed," she thought to herself; "how much I should like to know."
She raised herself a little, and glanced at the door of the room where all her flowers and playthings lay; it was partly open, and as she listened, it seemed as if some one in the room was playing the piano, but softly and more prettily than she had ever before heard it.
"Now all the flowers are certainly dancing in there," she thought, "oh how much I should like to see them," but she did not dare move for fear of disturbing her father and mother.
"If they would only come in here," she thought; but they did not come, and the music continued to play so beautifully, and was so pretty, that she could resist no longer.
She crept out of her little bed, went softly to the door and looked into the room.
Oh what a splendid sight there was to be sure!
There was no night-lamp burning, but the room appeared quite light, for the moon shone through the window upon the floor, and made it almost like day.
All the hyacinths and tulips stood in two long rows down the room, not a single flower remained in the window, and the flower-pots were all empty.
The flowers were dancing gracefully on the floor, making turns and holding each other by their long green leaves as they swung round.
At the piano sat a large yellow lily which little Ida was sure she had seen in the summer, for she remembered the student saying she was very much like Miss Lina, one of Ida's friends.
They all laughed at him then, but now it seemed to little Ida as if the tall, yellow flower was really like the young lady.
She had just the same manners while playing, bending her long yellow face from side to side, and nodding in time to the beautiful music.
Then she saw a large purple crocus jump into the middle of the table where the playthings stood, go up to the doll's bedstead and draw back the curtains; there lay the sick flowers, but they got up directly, and nodded to the others as a sign that they wished to dance with them.
The old rough doll, with the broken mouth, stood up and bowed to the pretty flowers.
They did not look ill at all now, but jumped about and were very merry, yet none of them noticed little Ida.
Presently it seemed as if something fell from the table.
Ida looked that way, and saw a slight carnival rod jumping down among the flowers as if it belonged to them; it was, however, very smooth and neat, and a little wax doll with a broad brimmed hat on her head, like the one worn by the lawyer, sat upon it.
The carnival rod hopped about among the flowers on its three red stilted feet, and stamped quite loud when it danced the Mazurka; the flowers could not perform this dance, they were too light to stamp in that manner.
All at once the wax doll which rode on the carnival rod seemed to grow larger and taller, and it turned round and said to the paper flowers, "How can you put such things in a child's head? they are all foolish fancies;" and then the doll was exactly like the lawyer with the broad brimmed hat, and looked as yellow and as cross as he did; but the paper dolls struck him on his thin legs, and he shrunk up again and became quite a little wax doll.
This was very amusing, and Ida could not help laughing.
The carnival rod went on dancing, and the lawyer was obliged to dance also.
It was no use, he might make himself great and tall, or remain a little wax doll with a large black hat; still he must dance.
Then at last the other flowers interceded for him, especially those who had lain in the doll's bed, and the carnival rod gave up his dancing.
At the same moment a loud knocking was heard in the drawer, where Ida's doll Sophy lay with many other toys.
Then the rough doll ran to the end of the table, laid himself flat down upon it, and began to pull the drawer out a little way.
Then Sophy raised himself, and looked round quite astonished, "There must be a ball here to-night," said Sophy.
"Why did not somebody tell me?"
"Will you dance with me?" said the rough doll.
"You are the right sort to dance with, certainly," said she, turning her back upon him.
Then she seated herself on the edge of the drawer, and thought that perhaps one of the flowers would ask her to dance; but none of them came.
Then she coughed, "Hem, hem, a-hem;" but for all that not one came.
The shabby doll now danced quite alone, and not very badly, after all.
As none of the flowers seemed to notice Sophy, she let herself down from the drawer to the floor, so as to make a very great noise.
All the flowers came round her directly, and asked if she had hurt herself, especially those who had lain in her bed.
But she was not hurt at all, and Ida's flowers thanked her for the use of the nice bed, and were very kind to her.
They led her into the middle of the room, where the moon shone, and danced with her, while all the other flowers formed a circle round them.
Then Sophy was very happy, and said they might keep her bed; she did not mind lying in the drawer at all.
But the flowers thanked her very much, and said,- "We cannot live long.
To-morrow morning we shall be quite dead; and you must tell little Ida to bury us in the garden, near to the grave of the canary; then, in the summer we shall wake up and be more beautiful than ever."
"No, you must not die," said Sophy, as she kissed the flowers.
Then the door of the room opened, and a number of beautiful flowers danced in.
Ida could not imagine where they could come from, unless they were the flowers from the king's garden.
First came two lovely roses, with little golden crowns on their heads; these were the king and queen.
Beautiful stocks and carnations followed, bowing to every one present.
They had also music with them.
Large poppies and peonies had pea-shells for instruments, and blew into them till they were quite red in the face.
The bunches of blue hyacinths and the little white snowdrops jingled their bell-like flowers, as if they were real bells.
Then came many more flowers: blue violets, purple heart's-ease, daisies, and lilies of the valley, and they all danced together, and kissed each other.
It was very beautiful to behold.
At last the flowers wished each other good-night.
Then little Ida crept back into her bed again, and dreamt of all she had seen.
When she arose the next morning, she went quickly to the little table, to see if the flowers were still there.
She drew aside the curtains of the little bed.
There they all lay, but quite faded; much more so than the day before.
Sophy was lying in the drawer where Ida had placed her; but she looked very sleepy.
"Do you remember what the flowers told you to say to me?" said little Ida.
But Sophy looked quite stupid, and said not a single word.
"You are not kind at all," said Ida; "and yet they all danced with you."
Then she took a little paper box, on which were painted beautiful birds, and laid the dead flowers in it.
"This shall be your pretty coffin," she said; "and by and by, when my cousins come to visit me, they shall help me to bury you out in the garden; so that next summer you may grow up again more beautiful than ever."
Her cousins were two good-tempered boys, whose names were James and Adolphus.
Their father had given them each a bow and arrow, and they had brought them to show Ida.
She told them about the poor flowers which were dead; and as soon as they obtained permission, they went with her to bury them.
The two boys walked first, with their crossbows on their shoulders, and little Ida followed, carrying the pretty box containing the dead flowers.
They dug a little grave in the garden.
Ida kissed her flowers and then laid them, with the box, in the earth.
James and Adolphus then fired their crossbows over the grave, as they had neither guns nor cannons.
IT was terribly cold and nearly dark on the last evening of the old year, and the snow was falling fast.
In the cold and the darkness, a poor little girl, with bare head and naked feet, roamed through the streets.
It is true she had on a pair of slippers when she left home, but they were not of much use.
They were very large, so large, indeed, that they had belonged to her mother, and the poor little creature had lost them in running across the street to avoid two carriages that were rolling along at a terrible rate.
One of the slippers she could not find, and a boy seized upon the other and ran away with it, saying that he could use it as a cradle, when he had children of his own.
So the little girl went on with her little naked feet, which were quite red and blue with the cold.
In an old apron she carried a number of matches, and had a bundle of them in her hands.
No one had bought anything of her the whole day, nor had any one given here even a penny.
Shivering with cold and hunger, she crept along; poor little child, she looked the picture of misery.
The snowflakes fell on her long, fair hair, which hung in curls on her shoulders, but she regarded them not.
Lights were shining from every window, and there was a savory smell of roast goose, for it was New-year's eve- yes, she remembered that.
In a corner, between two houses, one of which projected beyond the other, she sank down and huddled herself together.
She had drawn her little feet under her, but she could not keep off the cold; and she dared not go home, for she had sold no matches, and could not take home even a penny of money.
Her father would certainly beat her; besides, it was almost as cold at home as here, for they had only the roof to cover them, through which the wind howled, although the largest holes had been stopped up with straw and rags.
Her little hands were almost frozen with the cold.
Ah! perhaps a burning match might be some good, if she could draw it from the bundle and strike it against the wall, just to warm her fingers.
She drew one out-"scratch!" how it sputtered as it burnt!
It gave a warm, bright light, like a little candle, as she held her hand over it.
It was really a wonderful light.
It seemed to the little girl that she was sitting by a large iron stove, with polished brass feet and a brass ornament.
How the fire burned! and seemed so beautifully warm that the child stretched out her feet as if to warm them, when, lo! the flame of the match went out, the stove vanished, and she had only the remains of the half-burnt match in her hand.
She rubbed another match on the wall.
It burst into a flame, and where its light fell upon the wall it became as transparent as a veil, and she could see into the room.
The table was covered with a snowy white table-cloth, on which stood a splendid dinner service, and a steaming roast goose, stuffed with apples and dried plums.
And what was still more wonderful, the goose jumped down from the dish and waddled across the floor, with a knife and fork in its breast, to the little girl.
Then the match went out, and there remained nothing but the thick, damp, cold wall before her.
She lighted another match, and then she found herself sitting under a beautiful Christmas-tree.
It was larger and more beautifully decorated than the one which she had seen through the glass door at the rich merchant's.
Thousands of tapers were burning upon the green branches, and colored pictures, like those she had seen in the show-windows, looked down upon it all.
The little one stretched out her hand towards them, and the match went out.
The Christmas lights rose higher and higher, till they looked to her like the stars in the sky.
Then she saw a star fall, leaving behind it a bright streak of fire.
"Some one is dying," thought the little girl, for her old grandmother, the only one who had ever loved her, and who was now dead, had told her that when a star falls, a soul was going up to God.
She again rubbed a match on the wall, and the light shone round her; in the brightness stood her old grandmother, clear and shining, yet mild and loving in her appearance.
"Grandmother," cried the little one, "O take me with you; I know you will go away when the match burns out; you will vanish like the warm stove, the roast goose, and the large, glorious Christmas-tree."
And she made haste to light the whole bundle of matches, for she wished to keep her grandmother there.
And the matches glowed with a light that was brighter than the noon-day, and her grandmother had never appeared so large or so beautiful.
She took the little girl in her arms, and they both flew upwards in brightness and joy far above the earth, where there was neither cold nor hunger nor pain, for they were with God.
In the dawn of morning there lay the poor little one, with pale cheeks and smiling mouth, leaning against the wall; she had been frozen to death on the last evening of the year; and the New-year's sun rose and shone upon a little corpse!
The child still sat, in the stiffness of death, holding the matches in her hand, one bundle of which was burnt.
"She tried to warm herself," said some.
No one imagined what beautiful things she had seen, nor into what glory she had entered with her grandmother, on New-year's day.
THERE was once a woman who wished very much to have a little child, but she could not obtain her wish.
At last she went to a fairy, and said, "I should so very much like to have a little child; can you tell me where I can find one?"
"Oh, that can be easily managed," said the fairy.
"Here is a barleycorn of a different kind to those which grow in the farmer's fields, and which the chickens eat; put it into a flower-pot, and see what will happen."
"Thank you," said the woman, and she gave the fairy twelve shillings, which was the price of the barleycorn.
Then she went home and planted it, and immediately there grew up a large handsome flower, something like a tulip in appearance, but with its leaves tightly closed as if it were still a bud.
"It is a beautiful flower," said the woman, and she kissed the red and golden-colored leaves, and while she did so the flower opened, and she could see that it was a real tulip.
Within the flower, upon the green velvet stamens, sat a very delicate and graceful little maiden.
She was scarcely half as long as a thumb, and they gave her the name of "Thumbelina," or Tiny, because she was so small.
A walnut-shell, elegantly polished, served her for a cradle; her bed was formed of blue violet-leaves, with a rose-leaf for a counterpane.
Here she slept at night, but during the day she amused herself on a table, where the woman had placed a plateful of water.
Round this plate were wreaths of flowers with their stems in the water, and upon it floated a large tulip-leaf, which served Tiny for a boat.
Here the little maiden sat and rowed herself from side to side, with two oars made of white horse-hair.
It really was a very pretty sight.
Tiny could, also, sing so softly and sweetly that nothing like her singing had ever before been heard.
One night, while she lay in her pretty bed, a large, ugly, wet toad crept through a broken pane of glass in the window, and leaped right upon the table where Tiny lay sleeping under her rose-leaf quilt.
"What a pretty little wife this would make for my son, said the toad, and she took up the walnut-shell in which little Tiny lay asleep, and jumped through the window with it into the garden.
In the swampy margin of a broad stream in the garden lived the toad, with her son.
He was uglier even than his mother, and when he saw the pretty little maiden in her elegant bed, he could only cry, "Croak, croak, croak."
