He looked around on every side and exclaimed, "Oh, heavens, where am I?"
Then he got up and clambered out of the cave, went into the forest, and thought, "Here I am quite alone and deserted, how shall I obtain a horse now?"
"Alas, thou canst not help me."
They leapt nimbly upstairs and downstairs, and were merry and happy.
Then she opened the door of the small house, and when she had opened it, there stood twelve horses, such horses, so bright and shining, that his heart rejoiced at the sight of them.
Then they laughed and said, "Indeed, stupid Hans, where wilt thou get a horse?"
Hans went into the parlour, but the miller said he should not sit down to table, for he was so ragged and torn, that they would all be ashamed of him if any one came in.
In the morning when he awoke, the three days had passed, and a coach came with six horses and they shone so bright that it was delightful to see them! and a servant brought a seventh as well, which was for the poor miller"s boy.
So she ordered the servant to bring the seventh horse, and when the miller saw it, he said that such a horse as that had never yet entered his yard.
The little tailor did not let himself be frightened away, but was quite delighted, and said, "Boldly ventured is half won."
"Eh!" thought he, "what a stupid blockhead I am!
When the bear heard the music, he could not help beginning to dance, and when he had danced a while, the thing pleased him so well that he said to the little tailor, "Hark you, is the fiddle heavy?"
Then a vise was brought, and the bear put his claws in it, and the little tailor screwed it tight, and said, "Now wait until I come with the scissors," and he let the bear growl as he liked, and lay down in the corner on a bundle of straw, and fell asleep.
The bear in great fury ran after the carriage.
The princess heard him snorting and growling; she was terrified, and she cried, "Ah, the bear is behind us and wants to get thee!"
The tailor drove quietly to church, and the princess was married to him at once, and he lived with her as happy as a woodlark.
They walked the whole day over meadows, fields, and stony places; and when it rained the little sister said, "Heaven and our hearts are weeping together."
In the evening they came to a large forest, and they were so weary with sorrow and hunger and the long walk, that they lay down in a hollow tree and fell asleep.
And now the sister wept over her poor bewitched brother, and the little roe wept also, and sat sorrowfully near to her.
The little sister, however, was dreadfully frightened when she saw that her fawn was hurt.
The maiden was frightened when she saw, not her little roe, but a man come in who wore a golden crown upon his head.
Now when she heard that they were so happy, and so well off, envy and hatred rose in her heart and left her no peace, and she thought of nothing but how she could bring them again to misfortune.
The King said, "Ah, heavens! what is this?
"Good heavens!" said the girl, "no strawberries grow in winter!
In her joy she hastily gathered her basket full, thanked the little men, shook hands with each of them, and ran home to take her step-mother what she had longed for so much.
"Now look at her arrogance," cried the step-sister, "to throw about gold in that way!" but she was secretly envious of it, and wanted to go into the forest also to seek strawberries.
"Humph!
The maiden looked for strawberries outside, but as she found none, she went angrily home.
Then the step-mother was still more enraged, and thought of nothing but how to do every possible injury to the man"s daughter, whose beauty, however, grew daily greater.
"Ah, yes, with all my heart," she answered, for she was glad to get away from the mother and sister.
Thereupon the King was full of great joy, but he kept the Queen hidden in a chamber until the Sunday, when the baby was to be christened.
Night fell, and nothing was left for him to do, but to seek a bed in this painful solitude.
He might certainly have found a good bed on the soft moss, but the fear of wild beasts let him have no rest there, and at last he was forced to make up his mind to spend the night in a tree.
"Who are you, and what do you want?" asked the man in a grumbling voice.
"Go your way," replied the old man in a surly voice, "I will have nothing to do with runagates; seek for yourself a shelter elsewhere."
The tailor, who had watched the fight with astonishment, was still standing there motionless, when the stag in full career bounded up to him, and before he could escape, caught him up on his great horns.
The tailor was looking at the beauty with beating heart, when she suddenly opened her eyes, and started up at the sight of him in joyful terror.
We loved each other so tenderly, and were so alike in our way of thinking and our inclinations, that we both embraced the resolution never to marry, but to stay together to the end of our lives.
As I could not conceive from whence it came, I wanted to summon my waiting-maid who slept in the next room, but to my astonishment I found that speech was taken away from me by an unknown force.
My repugnance to his magic arts was, however, so great, that I vouchsafed him no answer.
I asked him where he had left my brother, and how he had come by this stag, out of whose great eyes I saw tears flowing.
I fell into a great rage at this, pulled out a pistol and discharged it at the monster; but the ball rebounded from his breast and went into my horse"s head.
Amongst the visions which passed before my eyes, that was the most comforting in which a young man came and set me free, and when I opened my eyes to-day I saw thee, and beheld my dream fulfilled.
Her joy was still more increased when her brother, who had killed the magician in the form of the bull, came out of the forest towards them in his human form, and on the self-same day the maiden, in accordance with her promise, gave her hand at the altar to the lucky tailor.
So the father gave him his blessing, and with great sorrow took leave of him.
"But dost thou know what thou must promise?" said the King.
The King came down himself and opened the door, and there he found both strong and well, and rejoiced with them that now all sorrow was over.
He was astonished when he saw them come alone, and asked what had happened to them.
And the Queen, when she had received the letter and read it, did as was written in it, and had a splendid wedding-feast prepared, and the King"s daughter was married to the luck-child, and as the youth was handsome and agreeable she lived with him in joy and contentment.
His grandmother scolded him.
"Oh!" cried the devil, "what are you doing?"
"Ha! what are you doing?" cried the devil angrily.
The devil jumped up, roared out, and would have treated her ill if she had not quieted him once more and said, "Who can help bad dreams?"
"Oh, ho!" said the spring, "then I will begin to flow," and began to flow violently.
The sight of this made the tailor so angry that he laid hold of the golden footstool, and threw it down to earth through heaven, at the old thief.
One morning the wood-cutter went out sorrowfully to his work in the forest, and while he was cutting wood, suddenly there stood before him a tall and beautiful woman with a crown of shining stars on her head, who said to him, "I am the Virgin Mary, mother of the child Jesus.
In each of them sat one of the Apostles in the midst of a great light, and she rejoiced in all the magnificence and splendour, and the little angels who always accompanied her rejoiced with her.
Immediately a great fear fell on her.
Her terror too would not quit her, let her do what she might, and her heart beat continually and would not be still; the gold too stayed on her finger, and would not go away, let her rub it and wash it never so much.
She wanted to cry out, but she could bring forth no sound.
Here, too, she found a shelter from storm and rain, but it was a miserable life, and bitterly did she weep when she remembered how happy she had been in heaven, and how the angels had played with her.
When the Queen rejoiced thereat, the Virgin Mary said, "Is thy heart not yet softened?
As he now feared that the step-mother might not treat them well, and even do them some injury, he took them to a lonely castle which stood in the midst of a forest.
Then the maiden looked at them and recognized her brothers, was glad and crept forth from beneath the bed.
The brothers were not less delighted to see their little sister, but their joy was of short duration.
The little sister wept and said, "Can you not be set free?"
The King, however, had a wicked mother who was dissatisfied with this marriage and spoke ill of the young Queen.
Then she saw that her deliverance was near, and her heart leapt with joy.
The kernel, however, was so large that she could not swallow it, and it remained sticking in her throat, so that she was alarmed lest she should be choked.
Then the cock was so distressed that he cried aloud, and every animal came to lament the little hen, and six mice built a little carriage to carry her to her grave, and when the carriage was ready they harnessed themselves to it, and the cock drove.
When a stone saw that, it took pity on the little cock, wished to help him, and laid itself over the water.
This pleased the Lord, and he went in.
When the cloth was laid, the Lord sat down with the man and his wife, and he enjoyed their coarse food, for there were happy faces at the table.
"Oh, yes," said the man; "if I can have that, too, I should like it very much."
He was very much astonished, and called his wife and said to her, "Tell me, what can have happened?
Then at last he was angry, and cried quite impatiently, "I wish your neck was broken!"
And now as he was walking slowly through the sand, and the sun was burning hot at noon-day, he grew quite hot-tempered and angry.
Then he really did feel warm.
So he got nothing by it but vexation, trouble, abuse, and the loss of his horse; but the poor people lived happily, quietly, and piously until their happy death.
Then the miser grew angry, and said, "Oh, but I can"t make any use of you, you strike far too powerfully; what will you have for the one blow?"
As he was hungry, and saw the food, he, too, place himself at the table, ate with those who were eating and enjoyed it.
She cried, "No, no I cannot bear it," and opened the other window, because drops of perspiration were running down her forehead.
And while she was speaking, the child plucked off quite a large apple, and ran to her sisters, saying, "Just taste, my dear little sisters, for never in my life have I tasted anything so delightful."
Then he was much troubled, and made known to the whole land that whosoever brought his daughters back again should have one of them to wife.
Then the mannikin grew very angry and said he was to do it, but the huntsman would not, and took my dear mannikin, and gave him a thorough beating.
Then the mannikin screamed terribly, and cried, "Stop, stop, and let me go, and I will tell thee where the King"s daughters are."
Then the two were so angry at this that they grew green and yellow.
The princess sprang up, threw her arms round his neck, embraced and kissed him repeatedly, and took her stomacher, which was made of pure gold, and hung it round his neck.
And they all rejoiced, and embraced him and kissed him without stopping.
When the princesses saw him they fainted.
Hereupon the King was angry, and ordered him to be put in prison at once, because he thought he must have done some injury to the children.
When the two heard that, they were frightened to death, and ran away in great haste.
Then the King grew angry, and ordered his wife to be cast into prison, and therein was she shut up for many long years.
Hereupon he was much troubled, and asked the old fisherman if that was true?
And now there was no one at home but the daughter, and she mourned for her brothers so much that at last she also begged the fisherman to let her set forth, for she wished to go in search of her brothers.
She rejoiced much to see them again, and carried them all over the water, and then she too went away, for now she was freed.
The others, however, went to the old fisherman, and all were glad that they had found each other again, but they hung the bird on the wall.
Then they were all terrified, and the King took the bird, the fisherman and the three children back with him to the castle, and ordered the prison to be opened and brought his wife out again.
Soon afterwards she shut her eyes and died, and was buried in the garden; and the little girl went every day to her grave and wept, and was always good and kind to all about her.
Then she took it, and went to her mother"s grave and planted it there; and cried so much that it was watered with her tears; and there it grew and became a fine tree.
Then she did as she was told; but when all was done she could not help crying, for she thought to herself, she should so have liked to have gone with them to the ball; and at last she begged her mother very hard to let her go.
Then Ashputtel brought the dish to her mother, overjoyed at the thought that now she should go to the ball.
But the mother said, "No, no! you slut, you have no clothes, and cannot dance; you shall not go."
And then Ashputtel took the dishes to her mother, rejoicing to think that she should now go to the ball.
But her mother said, "It is all of no use, you cannot go; you have no clothes, and cannot dance, and you would only put us to shame": and off she went with her two daughters to the ball.
Now when all were gone, and nobody left at home, Ashputtel went sorrowfully and sat down under the hazel-tree, and cried out:
Then both the sisters were overjoyed to hear it; for they had beautiful feet, and had no doubt that they could wear the golden slipper.
Then the prince got down and looked at her foot; and he saw, by the blood that streamed from it, what a trick she had played him.
"No," said he; "there is only a little dirty Ashputtel here, the child of my first wife; I am sure she cannot be the bride."
And when he drew near and looked at her face he knew her, and said, "This is the right bride."
Now this king and queen had plenty of money, and plenty of fine clothes to wear, and plenty of good things to eat and drink, and a coach to ride out in every day: but though they had been married many years they had no children, and this grieved them very much indeed.
Then the queen took pity on the little fish, and threw it back again into the river; and before it swam away it lifted its head out of the water and said, "I know what your wish is, and it shall be fulfilled, in return for your kindness to me--you will soon have a daughter."
What the little fish had foretold soon came to pass; and the queen had a little girl, so very beautiful that the king could not cease looking on it for joy, and said he would hold a great feast and make merry, and show the child to all the land.
Now, as she had not been asked to the feast she was very angry, and scolded the king and queen very much, and set to work to take her revenge.
So she cried out, "The king"s daughter shall, in her fifteenth year, be wounded by a spindle, and fall down dead."
However, the king hoped still to save his dear child altogether from the threatened evil; so he ordered that all the spindles in the kingdom should be bought up and burnt.
She looked so beautiful that he could not take his eyes off her, so he stooped down and gave her a kiss.
But the moment he kissed her she opened her eyes and awoke, and smiled upon him; and they went out together; and soon the king and queen also awoke, and all the court, and gazed on each other with great wonder.
And then the prince and Briar Rose were married, and the wedding feast was given; and they lived happily together all their lives long.
But this beautiful queen fell ill, and when she felt that her end drew near she called the king to her and said, "Promise me that you will never marry again, unless you meet with a wife who is as beautiful as I am, and who has golden hair like mine."
Then when the king in his grief promised all she asked, she shut her eyes and died.
But the king was not to be comforted, and for a long time never thought of taking another wife.
When the courtiers heard this they were shocked, and said, "Heaven forbid that a father should marry his daughter!
And his daughter was also shocked, but hoped the king would soon give up such thoughts; so she said to him, "Before I marry anyone I must have three dresses: one must be of gold, like the sun; another must be of shining silver, like the moon; and a third must be dazzling as the stars: besides this, I want a mantle of a thousand different kinds of fur put together, to which every beast in the kingdom must give a part of his skin."
Then she threw herself upon Heaven for help in her need, and went away, and journeyed on the whole night, till at last she came to a large wood.
"Look sharp!" said the king to the huntsmen, "and see what sort of game lies there."
And the huntsmen went up to the tree, and when they came back again said, "In the hollow tree there lies a most wonderful beast, such as we never saw before; its skin seems to be of a thousand kinds of fur, but there it lies fast asleep."
So the huntsmen took it up, and the maiden awoke and was greatly frightened, and said, "I am a poor child that has neither father nor mother left; have pity on me and take me with you."
Thus Cat-skin lived for a long time very sorrowfully.
But the king came up to her, and held out his hand and danced with her; and he thought in his heart, "I never saw any one half so beautiful."
When the dance was over, the king ordered his soup to be brought in; and it pleased him so well, that he thought he had never tasted any so good before.
The cook was frightened when he heard the order, and said to Cat-skin, "You must have let a hair fall into the soup; if it be so, you will have a good beating."
Then she ran to her little cabin, washed herself quickly, and took her dress out which was silvery as the moon, and put it on; and when she went in, looking like a king"s daughter, the king went up to her, and rejoiced at seeing her again, and when the dance began he danced with her.
Whilst the cook was above stairs, she got the golden necklace and dropped it into the soup; then it was brought to the king, who ate it, and it pleased him as well as before; so he sent for the cook, who was again forced to tell him that Cat-skin had cooked it.
Then she put on her dress which sparkled like the stars, and went into the ball-room in it; and the king danced with her again, and thought she had never looked so beautiful as she did then.
But the king said, "You are my beloved bride, and we will never more be parted from each other."
And the wedding feast was held, and a merry day it was, as ever was heard of or seen in that country, or indeed in any other.
A certain cat had made the acquaintance of a mouse, and had said so much to her about the great love and friendship she felt for her, that at length the mouse agreed that they should live and keep house together.
"All went off well," answered the cat.
"Top off!" cried the mouse, "that is a very odd and uncommon name, is it a usual one in your family?"
"What does that matter," said the cat, "it is no worse than Crumb-stealer, as your godchildren are called."
"Nothing ever seems so good as what one keeps to oneself," said she, and was quite satisfied with her day"s work.
I never heard the name in my life, I"ll wager anything it is not in the calendar!"
"You sit at home," said the cat, "in your dark-grey fur coat and long tail, and are filled with fancies, that"s because you do not go out in the daytime."
"When everything is eaten up one has some peace," said she to herself, and well filled and fat she did not return home till night.
"All-gone," cried the mouse "that is the most suspicious name of all!
From this time forth no one invited the cat to be godmother, but when the winter had come and there was no longer anything to be found outside, the mouse thought of their provision, and said: "Come, cat, we will go to our pot of fat which we have stored up for ourselves--we shall enjoy that."
"Yes," answered the cat, "you will enjoy it as much as you would enjoy sticking that dainty tongue of yours out of the window."
"Alas!" said the mouse, "now I see what has happened, now it comes to light!
You a true friend!
First top off, then half-done, then--" "Will you hold your tongue," cried the cat, "one word more, and I will eat you too."
Then said the maid: "What a clever Elsie we have!" and sat down beside her and began loudly to weep over the misfortune.
The boy went down, and there sat Clever Elsie and the girl both weeping together.
Then said the boy: "What a clever Elsie we have!" and sat down by her, and likewise began to howl loudly.
Then said the mother likewise: "What a clever Elsie we have!" and sat down and wept with them.
But when he got into the cellar, and they were all sitting together crying, and he heard the reason, and that Elsie"s child was the cause, and the Elsie might perhaps bring one into the world some day, and that he might be killed by the pick-axe, if he should happen to be sitting beneath it, drawing beer just at the very time when it fell down, he cried: "Oh, what a clever Elsie!" and sat down, and likewise wept with them.
There was once a cook named Gretel, who wore shoes with red heels, and when she walked out with them on, she turned herself this way and that, was quite happy and thought: "You certainly are a pretty girl!"
And when she came home she drank, in her gladness of heart, a draught of wine, and as wine excites a desire to eat, she tasted the best of whatever she was cooking until she was satisfied, and said: "The cook must know what the food is like."
Then Gretel called out to her master: "If the guest does not come, I must take the fowls away from the fire, but it will be a sin and a shame if they are not eaten the moment they are at their juiciest."
She ran down, set a jug, said: "God bless it for you, Gretel," and took a good drink, and thought that wine should flow on, and should not be interrupted, and took yet another hearty draught.
Then she went and put the fowls down again to the fire, basted them, and drove the spit merrily round.
She touched it with her finger, and said: "Ah! how good fowls are!
It certainly is a sin and a shame that they are not eaten at the right time!"
So she cut it off, ate it, and enjoyed it, and when she had done, she thought: "The other must go down too, or else master will observe that something is missing."
Then she said: "Well, Gretel, enjoy yourself, one fowl has been cut into, take another drink, and eat it up entirely; when it is eaten you will have some peace, why should God"s good gifts be spoilt?"
So she ran into the cellar again, took an enormous drink and ate up the one chicken in great glee.
The guest heard the sharpening, and hurried down the steps again as fast as he could.
Gretel was not idle; she ran screaming to her master, and cried: "You have invited a fine guest!"
"Why, Gretel?
What do you mean by that?"
"That"s a nice trick!" said her master, and lamented the fine chickens.
"If he had but left me one, so that something remained for me to eat."
The guest, however, thought no otherwise than that he was to give up one of his ears, and ran as if fire were burning under him, in order to take them both with him.
"That was ill done, Hans.
"That"s ill done, Hans, you should have put the knife in your pocket."
"That was ill done, Hans, you should have carried the bacon on your head."
"That was ill done, Hans, you should have led the calf, and put it in the stall."
"That was ill done, Hans, you should have cast friendly eyes on her."
The servant, however, thought he intended by that to say: "That is the first thief," and as he actually was so, he was terrified, and said to his comrade outside: "The doctor knows all: we shall fare ill, he said I was the first."
The second did not want to go in at all, but was forced.
This servant was equally alarmed, and he got out as fast as he could.
On this the servants looked terribly uneasy, and made a sign to the doctor that they wished him to step outside for a moment.
Then the fellow in the stove thought that the doctor meant him, and full of terror, sprang out, crying: "That man knows everything!"
"She is sitting in her room, Moaning in her gloom, Weeping her little eyes quite red, Because old Mr Fox is dead."
So when Frederick and Catherine came down, there they found all their money safe and sound.
Last night, old Sanna carried so many buckets of water into the house that I asked her why she was doing that, and she said that if I would promise not to tell anyone, and she said that early tomorrow morning when father was out hunting, she would set the kettle full of water, throw you into it and boil you; but we will get up quickly, dress ourselves, and go away together."
Then the children went home together, and were heartily delighted, and if they have not died, they are living still.
Hans was delighted as he sat on the horse, drew himself up, squared his elbows, turned out his toes, cracked his whip, and rode merrily off, one minute whistling a merry tune, and another singing,
"No care and no sorrow, A fig for the morrow!
We"ll laugh and be merry, Sing neigh down derry!"
Away went the horse full gallop; and before Hans knew what he was about, he was thrown off, and lay on his back by the road-side.
"Well," said the shepherd, "if you are so fond of her, I will change my cow for your horse; I like to do good to my neighbours, even though I lose by it myself."
"What a noble heart that good man has!" thought he.
Hans brushed his coat, wiped his face and hands, rested a while, and then drove off his cow quietly, and thought his bargain a very lucky one.
"If I have only a piece of bread (and I certainly shall always be able to get that), I can, whenever I like, eat my butter and cheese with it; and when I am thirsty I can milk my cow and drink the milk: and what can I wish for more?"
While he was trying his luck in milking, and managing the matter very clumsily, the uneasy beast began to think him very troublesome; and at last gave him such a kick on the head as knocked him down; and there he lay a long while senseless.
"Heaven reward you for your kindness and self-denial!" said Hans, as he gave the butcher the cow; and taking the pig off the wheel-barrow, drove it away, holding it by the string that was tied to its leg.
So on he jogged, and all seemed now to go right with him: he had met with some misfortunes, to be sure; but he was now well repaid for all.
The countryman stopped to ask what was o"clock; this led to further chat; and Hans told him all his luck, how he had so many good bargains, and how all the world went gay and smiling with him.
Then he took the string in his hand, and drove off the pig by a side path; while Hans went on the way homewards free from care.
"After all," thought he, "that chap is pretty well taken in.
How happy my mother will be!
Talk of a pig, indeed!
Give me a fine fat goose."
"O"er hill and o"er dale So happy I roam, Work light and live well, All the world is my home; Then who so blythe, so merry as I?"
Hans stood looking on for a while, and at last said, "You must be well off, master grinder! you seem so happy at your work."
"Yes," said the other, "mine is a golden trade; a good grinder never puts his hand into his pocket without finding money in it--but where did you get that beautiful goose?"
"How can you ask?" said Hans; "I should be the happiest man in the world, if I could have money whenever I put my hand in my pocket: what could I want more? there"s the goose."
Hans took the stone, and went his way with a light heart: his eyes sparkled for joy, and he said to himself, "Surely I must have been born in a lucky hour; everything I could want or wish for comes of itself.
People are so kind; they seem really to think I do them a favour in letting them make me rich, and giving me good bargains."
So he laid the stone carefully by his side on the bank: but, as he stooped down to drink, he forgot it, pushed it a little, and down it rolled, plump into the stream.
"How happy am I!" cried he; "nobody was ever so lucky as I."
Then up he got with a light heart, free from all his troubles, and walked on till he reached his mother"s house, and told her how very easy the road to good luck was.
He had little to bite and to break, and once when great dearth fell on the land, he could no longer procure even daily bread.
Now when he thought over this by night in his bed, and tossed about in his anxiety, he groaned and said to his wife: "What is to become of us?
How are we to feed our poor children, when we no longer have anything even for ourselves?"
"But I feel very sorry for the poor children, all the same," said the man.
Gretel wept bitter tears, and said to Hansel: "Now all is over with us."
Gretel began to cry and said: "How are we to get out of the forest now?"
The father, however, rejoiced, for it had cut him to the heart to leave them behind alone.
The man"s heart was heavy, and he thought: "It would be better for you to share the last mouthful with your children."
And when its song was over, it spread its wings and flew away before them, and they followed it until they reached a little house, on the roof of which it alighted; and when they approached the little house they saw that it was built of bread and covered with cakes, but that the windows were of clear sugar.
Hansel and Gretel were so terribly frightened that they let fall what they had in their hands.
Afterwards two pretty little beds were covered with clean white linen, and Hansel and Gretel lay down in them, and thought they were in heaven.
Scream as he might, it would not help him.
"Dear God, do help us," she cried.
"If the wild beasts in the forest had but devoured us, we should at any rate have died together."
Then Gretel gave her a push that drove her far into it, and shut the iron door, and fastened the bolt.
How they did rejoice and embrace each other, and dance about and kiss each other!
Then they began to run, rushed into the parlour, and threw themselves round their father"s neck.
Then all anxiety was at an end, and they lived together in perfect happiness.
Then on the third day, he sent for all his huntsmen, and said: "Scour the whole forest through, and do not give up until you have found all three."
The king, however, would not give his consent, and said: "It is not safe in there; I fear it would fare with you no better than with the others, and you would never come out again."
The boy had become afraid; he called and cried after him: "Oh, wild man, do not go away, or I shall be beaten!"
Then he could easily guess what had happened, and much grief reigned in the royal court.
"Nothing nothing," he answered, and held his finger behind his back, that the man might not see it.
You can imagine how terrified the poor boy was!
The king gathered together his people, and did not know whether or not he could offer any opposition to the enemy, who was superior in strength and had a mighty army.
When the king returned to his palace, his daughter went to meet him, and wished him joy of his victory.
The maiden laughed, and said: "He does not stand much on ceremony, but I have already seen by his golden hair that he was no gardener"s boy," and then she went and kissed him.
His father and mother came to the wedding, and were in great delight, for they had given up all hope of ever seeing their dear son again.
One day they went to walk in the wood, that they might be alone; and Jorindel said, "We must take care that we don"t go too near to the fairy"s castle."
Then he shrank for fear, turned pale, and trembled.
He prayed, he wept, he sorrowed, but all in vain.
Many a time did he walk round and round as near to the hated castle as he dared go, but all in vain; he heard or saw nothing of Jorinda.
He ran or flew after her, touched the cage with the flower, and Jorinda stood before him, and threw her arms round his neck looking as beautiful as ever, as beautiful as when they walked together in the wood.
But the old king was very angry when he saw how his daughter behaved, and how she ill-treated all his guests; and he vowed that, willing or unwilling, she should marry the first man, be he prince or beggar, that came to the door.
"Ah! unlucky wretch that I am!" sighed she; "would that I had married King Grisly-beard!"
"Ah! unlucky wretch that I am!" said she; "would that I had married King Grisly-beard!"
"Ah! wretch that I am!" sighed she; "why did I not marry King Grisly-beard?"
"That is no business of mine," said the fiddler: "why should you wish for another husband?
Am not I good enough for you?"
Then she began to cry, and knew not what to do.
Then she bitterly grieved for the pride and folly which had brought her so low.
All on a sudden, as she was going out, in came the king"s son in golden clothes; and when he saw a beautiful woman at the door, he took her by the hand, and said she should be his partner in the dance; but she trembled for fear, for she saw that it was King Grisly-beard, who was making sport of her.
Joy was in every face and every heart.
The feast was grand; they danced and sang; all were merry; and I only wish that you and I had been of the party.
This grieved him very much, for Lily was his dearest child; and as he was journeying home, thinking what he should bring her, he came to a fine castle; and around the castle was a garden, in one half of which it seemed to be summer-time and in the other half winter.
"A lucky hit!" said he, as he called to his servant, and told him to go to a beautiful bed of roses that was there, and bring him away one of the finest flowers.
Then the servant was greatly frightened, and said, "It may perhaps be only a cat or a dog."
And when Lily came to the castle, he welcomed her so courteously that she agreed to marry him.
The wedding-feast was held, and they lived happily together a long time.
Then she rejoiced much at the thoughts of seeing her father once more, and set out with the lions; and everyone was overjoyed to see her, for they had thought her dead long since.
But she told them how happy she was, and stayed till the feast was over, and then went back to the wood.
But he would not, and said that it would be a very hazardous thing; for if the least ray of the torch-light should fall upon him his enchantment would become still worse, for he should be changed into a dove, and be forced to wander about the world for seven long years.
This said, he flew out at the door, and poor Lily followed; and every now and then a white feather fell, and showed her the way she was to journey.
"Now," thought she to herself, "no aid of man can be of use to me."
Thus the unhappy traveller was again forsaken and forlorn; but she took heart and said, "As far as the wind blows, and so long as the cock crows, I will journey on, till I find him once again."
Then poor Lily was led away, and forced to give up the golden dress; and when she saw that there was no help for her, she went out into a meadow, and sat herself down and wept.
And she rose up and drove them before her, till the bride saw them from her window, and was so pleased that she came forth and asked her if she would sell the brood.
Then the prince took care to throw away the sleeping draught; and when Lily came and began again to tell him what woes had befallen her, and how faithful and true to him she had been, he knew his beloved wife"s voice, and sprang up, and said, "You have awakened me as from a dream, for the strange princess had thrown a spell around me, so that I had altogether forgotten you; but Heaven hath sent you to me in a lucky hour."
There they found their child, now grown up to be comely and fair; and after all their troubles they lived happily together to the end of their days.
Once upon a time there was a dear little girl who was loved by everyone who looked at her, but most of all by her grandmother, and there was nothing that she would not have given to the child.
One day her mother said to her: "Come, Little Red-Cap, here is a piece of cake and a bottle of wine; take them to your grandmother, she is ill and weak, and they will do her good.
The wolf thought to himself: "What a tender young creature! what a nice plump mouthful--she will be better to eat than the old woman.
When he had made two snips, he saw the little Red-Cap shining, and then he made two snips more, and the little girl sprang out, crying: "Ah, how frightened I have been!
Then all three were delighted.
But Red-Cap went joyously home, and no one ever did anything to harm her again.
She walked over the meadow, and presently she came upon a baker"s oven full of bread, and the loaves cried out to her, "Take us out, take us out, or alas! we shall be burnt to a cinder; we were baked through long ago."
The next thing she came to was a little house, and there she saw an old woman looking out, with such large teeth, that she was terrified, and turned to run away.
The old woman spoke so kindly, that the girl summoned up courage and agreed to enter into her service.
So she stayed on with Mother Holle for some time, and then she began to grow unhappy.
She could not at first tell why she felt sad, but she became conscious at last of great longing to go home; then she knew she was homesick, although she was a thousand times better off with Mother Holle than with her mother and sister.
After waiting awhile, she went to Mother Holle and said, "I am so homesick, that I cannot stay with you any longer, for although I am so happy here, I must return to my own people."
Then Mother Holle said, "I am pleased that you should want to go back to your own people, and as you have served me so well and faithfully, I will take you home myself."
Then she went in to her mother and sister, and as she was so richly covered with gold, they gave her a warm welcome.
"Take us out, take us out, or alas! we shall be burnt to a cinder; we were baked through long ago," cried the loaves as before.
The first day she was very obedient and industrious, and exerted herself to please Mother Holle, for she thought of the gold she should get in return.
The next day, however, she began to dawdle over her work, and the third day she was more idle still; then she began to lie in bed in the mornings and refused to get up.
So Mother Holle very soon got tired of her, and told her she might go.
The lazy girl was delighted at this, and thought to herself, "The gold will soon be mine."
The dog liked this plan very well; and accordingly so it was managed.
So from this time forward Sultan had all that he could wish for.
Then Rapunzel lost her fear, and when he asked her if she would take him for her husband, and she saw that he was young and handsome, she thought: "He will love me more than old Dame Gothel does"; and she said yes, and laid her hand in his.
The king"s son was beside himself with pain, and in his despair he leapt down from the tower.
Then he wandered quite blind about the forest, ate nothing but roots and berries, and did naught but lament and weep over the loss of his dearest wife.
Thus he roamed about in misery for some years, and at length came to the desert where Rapunzel, with the twins to which she had given birth, a boy and a girl, lived in wretchedness.
He led her to his kingdom where he was joyfully received, and they lived for a long time afterwards, happy and contented.
At the birth of her first little child she was very glad, and forgot the dwarf, and what she had said.
"Can your name be RUMPELSTILTSKIN?" said the lady slyly.
Then he made the best of his way off, while the nurse laughed and the baby crowed; and all the court jeered at him for having had so much trouble for nothing, and said, "We wish you a very good morning, and a merry feast, Mr RUMPLESTILTSKIN!"
"She sits upstairs in her room, Bewailing her sorrowful doom, Bewailing her trouble so sore, For old Mr Fox is no more."
Then the wedding was solemnized with young Mr Fox, and there was much rejoicing and dancing; and if they have not left off, they are dancing still.
When she heard this she turned pale with rage and envy, and called to one of her servants, and said, "Take Snowdrop away into the wide wood, that I may never see her any more."
The first said, "Who has been sitting on my stool?"
The second, "Who has been eating off my plate?"
The third, "Who has been picking my bread?"
The fourth, "Who has been meddling with my spoon?"
The fifth, "Who has been handling my fork?"
The sixth, "Who has been cutting with my knife?"
The seventh, "Who has been drinking my wine?"
Then the first looked round and said, "Who has been lying on my bed?"
And the rest came running to him, and everyone cried out that somebody had been upon his bed.
And they were very glad to see her, and took care not to wake her; and the seventh dwarf slept an hour with each of the other dwarfs in turn, till the night was gone.
Then the queen was very much frightened; for she knew that the glass always spoke the truth, and was sure that the servant had betrayed her.
Then the blood ran cold in her heart with spite and malice, to see that Snowdrop still lived; and she dressed herself up again, but in quite another dress from the one she wore before, and took with her a poisoned comb.
Then she dressed herself up as a peasant"s wife, and travelled over the hills to the dwarfs" cottage, and knocked at the door; but Snowdrop put her head out of the window and said, "I dare not let anyone in, for the dwarfs have told me not."
"No," said Snowdrop, "I dare not take it."
So they laid her down upon a bier, and all seven watched and bewailed her three whole days; and then they thought they would bury her: but her cheeks were still rosy; and her face looked just as it did while she was alive; so they said, "We will never bury her in the cold ground."
And the birds of the air came too, and bemoaned Snowdrop; and first of all came an owl, and then a raven, and at last a dove, and sat by her side.
Then he offered the dwarfs money, and prayed and besought them to let him take her away; but they said, "We will not part with her for all the gold in the world."
"But," said Roland, "I counsel you first to take away her magic wand, or we cannot escape if she pursues us."
"That shall not help you," cried she, "even if you have got a long way off, you shall still not escape me."
The poor girl remained there a long time, but at length, as he did not return at all, she was sad, and changed herself into a flower, and thought: "Someone will surely come this way, and trample me down."
He could not conceive how this came to pass, for he never saw a human being in his house, and no one could have concealed himself in it.
When the faithful maiden heard of this, she grew so sad that she thought her heart would break, and she would not go thither, but the other girls came and took her.
But when she began her song, and it reached Roland"s ears, he sprang up and cried: "I know the voice, that is the true bride, I will have no other!"
Then the faithful maiden held her wedding with her sweetheart Roland, and grief came to an end and joy began.
"With all my heart," said Partlet, "let us go and make a holiday of it together."
While this was passing, a duck came quacking up and cried out, "You thieving vagabonds, what business have you in my grounds?
I"ll give it you well for your insolence!" and upon that she fell upon Chanticleer most lustily.
He now flew into a very great passion, and, suspecting the company who had come in the night before, he went to look after them, but they were all off; so he swore that he never again would take in such a troop of vagabonds, who ate a great deal, paid no reckoning, and gave him nothing for his trouble but their apish tricks.
Then he was very angry, and went without his supper to bed; but when he laid his head on the pillow, the pin ran into his cheek: at this he became quite furious, and, jumping up, would have run out of the house; but when he came to the door, the millstone fell down on his head, and killed him on the spot.
Then she was in a great fright, and cried out to Chanticleer, "Pray run as fast as you can, and fetch me some water, or I shall be choked."
Then Chanticleer was very sorry, and cried bitterly; and all the beasts came and wept with him over poor Partlet.
Then he sat down by the grave, and wept and mourned, till at last he died too; and so all were dead.
He sat for a while very sorrowfully, then suddenly he felt in his pocket and found his tobacco pipe, which was still half full.
"What my commands are?" replied the soldier, quite astonished.
When it was ready and the soldier had taken possession of it, he summoned the little black manikin and said: "I have served the king faithfully, but he has dismissed me, and left me to hunger, and now I want to take my revenge."
The manikin said: "That is an easy thing for me to do, but a very dangerous thing for you, for if it is discovered, you will fare ill."
"Aha! are you there?" cried the soldier, "get to your work at once!
At last he could bear it no longer; so he took to his heels, and off he ran in a very sad and sorrowful mood.
"Because," said the dog, "I am very very hungry, and have nothing to eat."
"I have had plenty of meat," answered he, "but I should like to have a piece of bread to eat after it."
And the wife struck; but she missed her aim, and hit her husband on the head so that he fell down dead, and the sparrow flew quietly home to her nest.
His conscience was clear and his heart light amidst all his troubles; so he went peaceably to bed, left all his cares to Heaven, and soon fell asleep.
In the morning after he had said his prayers, he sat himself down to his work; when, to his great wonder, there stood the shoes all ready made, upon the table.
The good man knew not what to say or think at such an odd thing happening.
As soon as it was midnight, there came in two little naked dwarfs; and they sat themselves upon the shoemaker"s bench, took up all the work that was cut out, and began to ply with their little fingers, stitching and rapping and tapping away at such a rate, that the shoemaker was all wonder, and could not take his eyes off them.
"These little wights have made us rich, and we ought to be thankful to them, and do them a good turn if we can.
The thought pleased the good cobbler very much; and one evening, when all the things were ready, they laid them on the table, instead of the work that they used to cut out, and then went and hid themselves, to watch what the little elves would do.
About midnight in they came, dancing and skipping, hopped round the room, and then went to sit down to their work as usual; but when they saw the clothes lying for them, they laughed and chuckled, and seemed mightily delighted.
Then they dressed themselves in the twinkling of an eye, and danced and capered and sprang about, as merry as could be; till at last they danced out at the door, and away over the green.
The good couple saw them no more; but everything went well with them from that time forward, as long as they lived.
"Did not you ask it for anything?" said the wife, "we live very wretchedly here, in this nasty dirty pigsty; do go back and tell the fish we want a snug little cottage."
"Ah!" said the fisherman, "how happily we shall live now!"
"Ah!" said the man, dolefully, "my wife wants to live in a stone castle."
"Well," said the man, "now we will live cheerful and happy in this beautiful castle for the rest of our lives."
So the man went away quite sorrowful to think that his wife should want to be king.
So the fisherman was forced to go; and he muttered as he went along, "This will come to no good, it is too much to ask; the fish will be tired at last, and then we shall be sorry for what we have done."
At this sight the fisherman was dreadfully frightened, and he trembled so that his knees knocked together: but still he went down near to the shore, and said:
The fisherman was half asleep, but the thought frightened him so much that he started and fell out of bed.
"No," said she, "I am very uneasy as long as the sun and moon rise without my leave.
Then the man went shivering with fear; and as he was going down to the shore a dreadful storm arose, so that the trees and the very rocks shook.
They were still not safe; for he was such a great beast that in his fall he overset the boat, and they had to swim in the open sea upon a few planks.
So the tailor took his needle, and with a few large stitches put some of the planks together; and he sat down upon these, and sailed about and gathered up all pieces of the boat; and then tacked them together so quickly that the boat was soon ready, and they then reached the ship and got home safe.
When they had brought home the princess to her father, there was great rejoicing; and he said to the four brothers, "One of you shall marry her, but you must settle amongst yourselves which it is to be."
Then the king put in a word, and said, "Each of you is right; and as all cannot have the young lady, the best way is for neither of you to have her: for the truth is, there is somebody she likes a great deal better.
And the king then gave to each half a kingdom, as he had said; and they lived very happily the rest of their days, and took good care of their father; and somebody took better care of the young lady, than to let either the dragon or one of the craftsmen have her again.
At last he said: "Oh, you wretched beard-cleaner, you piebald fool, you hungry mouse-hunter, what can you be thinking of?
Have you the cheek to ask how I am getting on?
How many arts do you understand?"
The poor horse was very melancholy, and wandered up and down in the wood, seeking some little shelter from the cold wind and rain.
"Ah!" replied the horse, "justice and avarice never dwell in one house; my master has forgotten all that I have done for him so many years, and because I can no longer work he has turned me adrift, and says unless I become stronger than a lion he will not take me back again; what chance can I have of that? he knows I have none, or he would not talk so."
"Here he is, master," said he, "I have got the better of him": and when the farmer saw his old servant, his heart relented, and he said.
As soon as the young princess saw her ball, she ran to pick it up; and she was so overjoyed to have it in her hand again, that she never thought of the frog, but ran home with it as fast as she could.
But when the princess awoke on the following morning she was astonished to see, instead of the frog, a handsome prince, gazing on her with the most beautiful eyes she had ever seen, and standing at the head of her bed.
They then took leave of the king, and got into the coach with eight horses, and all set out, full of joy and merriment, for the prince"s kingdom, which they reached safely; and there they lived happily a great many years.
"Ah!" said the young man, "that would be a great thing, but how can you contrive it?"
Then the fox came, and said, "Pray kill me, and cut off my head and my feet."
So he said, "Yes," and forgot the fox"s counsel, and sat down on the side of the river; and while he suspected nothing, they came behind, and threw him down the bank, and took the princess, the horse, and the bird, and went home to the king their master, and said.
Then he went to the king, and told him all his brothers" roguery; and they were seized and punished, and he had the princess given to him again; and after the king"s death he was heir to his kingdom.
The wedding was celebrated, and after the king"s death, Dummling inherited his kingdom and lived for a long time contentedly with his wife.
They loved each other dearly, but sorrowed much that they had no children.
"Ah," sighed the woman heavily, "if I had but a child, as red as blood and as white as snow," and as she spoke the words, her heart grew light within her, and it seemed to her that her wish was granted, and she returned to the house feeling glad and comforted.
Once again the wife stood under the juniper-tree, and it was so full of sweet scent that her heart leaped for joy, and she was so overcome with her happiness, that she fell on her knees.
Presently the fruit became round and firm, and she was glad and at peace; but when they were fully ripe she picked the berries and ate eagerly of them, and then she grew sad and ill.
A little while later she called her husband, and said to him, weeping.
"If I die, bury me under the juniper-tree."
Her husband buried her under the juniper-tree, and wept bitterly for her.
By degrees, however, his sorrow grew less, and although at times he still grieved over his loss, he was able to go about as usual, and later on he married again.
"Mother," said the boy, "how dreadful you look!
"Oh!" she said, "I have knocked off brother"s head," and then she wept and wept, and nothing would stop her.
But Marleen stood looking on, and wept and wept, and her tears fell into the pot, so that there was no need of salt.
The mother said nothing, but gave him a large dish of black pudding, and Marleen still wept without ceasing.
Little Marleen went upstairs and took her best silk handkerchief out of her bottom drawer, and in it she wrapped all the bones from under the table and carried them outside, and all the time she did nothing but weep.
"Bird," he said, "what a beautiful song that is you sing!
"How lighthearted I feel," said the father, "so pleased and cheerful."
"I do feel so happy," said the father, "and how beautifully the sun shines; I feel just as if I were going to see an old friend again."
"Look, mother," said the man, "at the beautiful bird that is singing so magnificently; and how warm and bright the sun is, and what a delicious scent of spice in the air!"
He went inside, and said, "See, what a splendid bird that is; he has given me this beautiful gold chain, and looks so beautiful himself."
And she now felt quite happy and lighthearted; she put on the shoes and danced and jumped about in them.
"I was so miserable," she said, "when I came out, but that has all passed away; that is indeed a splendid bird, and he has given me a pair of red shoes."
The father and little Marleen heard the sound and ran out, but they only saw mist and flame and fire rising from the spot, and when these had passed, there stood the little brother, and he took the father and little Marleen by the hand; then they all three rejoiced, and went inside together and sat down to their dinners and ate.
But as he drew near home, his little boy was so glad to see him that he crept behind him, and laid fast hold of his legs, and looked up in his face and laughed.
Then the father started, trembling with fear and horror, and saw what it was that he had bound himself to do; but as no gold was come, he made himself easy by thinking that it was only a joke that the dwarf was playing him, and that, at any rate, when the money came, he should see the bearer, and would not take it in.
At the sight of this he was overjoyed, and forgetting all about his son, went into trade again, and became a richer merchant than before.
Meantime little Heinel grew up, and as the end of the twelve years drew near the merchant began to call to mind his bond, and became very sad and thoughtful; so that care and sorrow were written upon his face.
Then he took leave of his father, and set himself in the boat, but before it got far off a wave struck it, and it fell with one side low in the water, so the merchant thought that poor Heinel was lost, and went home very sorrowful, while the dwarf went his way, thinking that at any rate he had had his revenge.
Now the white snake was an enchanted princess; and she was very glad to see him, and said, "Are you at last come to set me free?
And all came to pass as she had said; Heinel bore all, and spoke not a word; and the third night the princess came, and fell on his neck and kissed him.
Joy and gladness burst forth throughout the castle, the wedding was celebrated, and he was crowned king of the Golden Mountain.
They lived together very happily, and the queen had a son.
And thus eight years had passed over their heads, when the king thought of his father; and he began to long to see him once again.
At this the son was vexed; and forgetting his word, turned his ring, and wished for his queen and son.
In an instant they stood before him; but the queen wept, and said he had broken his word, and bad luck would follow.
He did all he could to soothe her, and she at last seemed to be appeased; but she was not so in truth, and was only thinking how she should punish him.
But the princes, peers, and great men mocked at him.
Then she opened the door for her husband, and said: "Thank heaven, you are back again!
"Bless me!" cried the miller, and went there and found the wine.
"Upon my word!" cried the miller, and went thither, and found the roast meat.
"That would be a fine thing!" cried the miller, and went there and found the salad.
"That would be a fine thing!" cried the miller, and looked there, and found the cakes.
And now the two sat down to the table together, but the miller"s wife was frightened to death, and went to bed and took all the keys with her.
As he jogged along over the fields, singing and dancing, a little dwarf met him, and asked him what made him so merry.
"Why, what should make me down-hearted?" said he; "I am sound in health and rich in purse, what should I care for?
Then the countryman rejoiced at his good luck, and said, "I like many things better than money: first, I will have a bow that will bring down everything I shoot at; secondly, a fiddle that will set everyone dancing that hears me play upon it; and thirdly, I should like that everyone should grant what I ask."
Our honest friend journeyed on his way too; and if he was merry before, he was now ten times more so.
"Oh, what a pretty bird!" said the miser; "I would give a great deal of money to have such a one."
So he took the purse, put up his fiddle, and travelled on very pleased with his bargain.
Meanwhile the miser crept out of the bush half-naked and in a piteous plight, and began to ponder how he should take his revenge, and serve his late companion some trick.
At last he went to the judge, and complained that a rascal had robbed him of his money, and beaten him into the bargain; and that the fellow who did it carried a bow at his back and a fiddle hung round his neck.
"No, you gave it me for playing a tune to you." said the countryman; but the judge told him that was not likely, and cut the matter short by ordering him off to the gallows.
Then the miser said, "Bind me fast, bind me fast, for pity"s sake."
Then he called to the miser, and said, "Tell us now, you vagabond, where you got that gold, or I shall play on for your amusement only," "I stole it," said the miser in the presence of all the people; "I acknowledge that I stole it, and that you earned it fairly."
But the sausage remained so long away, that they became uneasy, and the bird flew out to meet him.
He picked up the wood, and flew sadly home, and told the mouse all he had seen and heard.
They were both very unhappy, but agreed to make the best of things and to remain with one another.
And he used to look towards the table with his eyes full of tears.
The man and his wife looked at each other for a while, and presently began to cry.
Then she went to the king, and told him the joyful tidings, and when the time was come she gave birth to a son, and the king was filled with gladness.
Then he carried the child away to a secret place, where a nurse was obliged to suckle it, and he ran to the king and accused the queen of having allowed her child to be taken from her by the wild beasts.
When the king saw the blood on her apron, he believed this, fell into such a passion that he ordered a high tower to be built, in which neither sun nor moon could be seen and had his wife put into it, and walled up.
The cook, however, thought to himself: "If the child has the power of wishing, and I am here, he might very easily get me into trouble."
The two played together, and loved each other with all their hearts, and the old cook went out hunting like a nobleman.
The thought occurred to him, however, that the king"s son might some day wish to be with his father, and thus bring him into great peril.
So he went out and took the maiden aside, and said: "Tonight when the boy is asleep, go to his bed and plunge this knife into his heart, and bring me his heart and tongue, and if you do not do it, you shall lose your life."
The cook once more said: "If you do not do it, it shall cost you your own life."
Now the king felt great joy at this, and commanded that his entire household should eat with him next day, and made a great feast.
Whilst he was sitting there, he thought of his dearest mother, and wished that one of the king"s principal servants would begin to speak of her, and would ask how it was faring with the queen in the tower, and if she were alive still, or had perished.
When the king saw him he fell into a passion, and ordered him to be cast into the deepest dungeon.
The son said: "Most gracious father, I will show her to you in the form of a beautiful flower," and he thrust his hand into his pocket and brought forth the pink, and placed it on the royal table, and it was so beautiful that the king had never seen one to equal it.
She lived three days more, and then died happily, and when she was buried, the two white doves which had brought her food to the tower, and were angels of heaven, followed her body and seated themselves on her grave.
The aged king ordered the cook to be torn in four pieces, but grief consumed the king"s own heart, and he soon died.
Then their brother, who was a little insignificant dwarf, went out to seek for his brothers: but when he had found them they only laughed at him, to think that he, who was so young and simple, should try to travel through the world, when they, who were so much wiser, had been unable to get on.
At last came the little dwarf"s turn; and he looked in the moss; but it was so hard to find the pearls, and the job was so tiresome!--so he sat down upon a stone and cried.
She was sadder than ever as she drove along, and said mournfully, "I know he has fallen asleep, and will not be able to set me free."
She found him sleeping heavily, and all her efforts to awaken him were of no avail.
When the man awoke and found that he had been sleeping, he was grieved at heart, and said, "She has no doubt been here and driven away again, and it is now too late for me to save her."
He found that the light came from a house which looked smaller than it really was, from the contrast of its height with that of an immense giant who stood in front of it.
He thought to himself, "If the giant sees me going in, my life will not be worth much."
However, after a while he summoned up courage and went forward.
"I would rather you let that alone," said the man, "for I do not willingly give myself up to be eaten; if you are wanting food I have enough to satisfy your hunger."
The giant was pleased with the good cheer, and ate and drank to his heart"s content.
Then he fetched other older maps, and they went on looking for the castle until at last they found it, but it was many thousand miles away.
"How shall I be able to get there?" asked the man.
When he saw that it was impossible to reach her, he was greatly grieved, and said to himself, "I will remain here and wait for her," so he built himself a little hut, and there he sat and watched for a whole year, and every day he saw the king"s daughter driving round her castle, but still was unable to get nearer to her.
When therefore she came to the castle gate she saw him, and cried aloud for joy.
Then he dismounted and took her in his arms; and she kissed him, and said, "Now you have indeed set me free, and tomorrow we will celebrate our marriage."
There was once a miller who had one beautiful daughter, and as she was grown up, he was anxious that she should be well married and provided for.
But the girl did not care for the man as a girl ought to care for her betrothed husband.
When Sunday came, and it was time for the girl to start, a feeling of dread came over her which she could not explain, and that she might be able to find her path again, she filled her pockets with peas and lentils to sprinkle on the ground as she went along.
"Ah, you poor child," answered the old woman, "what a place for you to come to!
If I did not take pity on you and save you, you would be lost."
The poor betrothed girl crouched trembling and shuddering behind the cask, for she saw what a terrible fate had been intended for her by the robbers.
She was obliged to step over the bodies of the sleepers, who were lying close together, and every moment she was filled with renewed dread lest she should awaken them.
The bridegroom, who during this recital had grown deadly pale, up and tried to escape, but the guests seized him and held him fast.
The huntsman thanked her, and thought to himself, "If all this does happen, it will be a fine thing for me."
"Alas! dear sir," said she, "yonder lies the granite rock where all the costly diamonds grow, and I want so much to go there, that whenever I think of it I cannot help being sorrowful, for who can reach it? only the birds and the flies--man cannot."
The diamonds glittered so on all sides that they were delighted with the sight and picked up the finest.
When he awoke and found that his lady had tricked him, and left him alone on the wild rock, he said, "Alas! what roguery there is in the world!" and there he sat in great grief and fear, not knowing what to do.
However, he still felt very hungry, and the salad tasted very nice; so he ate on till he came to another kind of salad, and scarcely had he tasted it when he felt another change come over him, and soon saw that he was lucky enough to have found his old shape again.
And the beautiful young lady fell upon her knees before him, and said, "O dearest huntsman! forgive me all the ill I have done you; my mother forced me to it, it was against my will, for I always loved you very much.
So they were married, and lived together very happily till they died.
Each wanted to be first at drawing the water, and so they were in such a hurry that all let their pitchers fall into the well, and they stood very foolishly looking at one another, and did not know what to do, for none dared go home.
Then she was much grieved, and went to her father and mother, and asked if she had any brothers, and what had become of them.
So they dared no longer hide the truth from her, but said it was the will of Heaven, and that her birth was only the innocent cause of it; but the little girl mourned sadly about it every day, and thought herself bound to do all she could to bring her brothers back; and she had neither rest nor ease, till at length one day she stole away, and set out into the wide world to find her brothers, wherever they might be, and free them, whatever it might cost her.
When the little girl heard this (for she stood behind the door all the time and listened), she ran forward, and in an instant all the ravens took their right form again; and all hugged and kissed each other, and went merrily home.
At length she became uneasy, and wakened the boy, and asked: "Do you know where my husband is?
She carried him down, and then with loud screams she hastened to the boy"s father, "Your boy," cried she, "has been the cause of a great misfortune!
He has thrown my husband down the steps so that he broke his leg.
Take the good-for-nothing fellow out of our house."
"What wicked tricks are these?" said he.
Go out of my sight.
I will see you no more."
If you are cold, come and take a seat by the fire and warm yourselves."
Ah! now I know what it is to shudder!"
"The old woman has destroyed all my brethren in fire and smoke; she seized sixty of them at once, and took their lives.
But when she had reached the middle, and heard the water rushing beneath her, she was after all, afraid, and stood still, and ventured no farther.
The bean thanked him most prettily, but as the tailor used black thread, all beans since then have a black seam.
"Lord have mercy on us!" cried the father; "is that all you have learnt?
Then the father fell into a rage and said: "Oh, you lost man, you have spent the precious time and learnt nothing; are you not ashamed to appear before my eyes?
The youth wandered on, and after some time came to a fortress where he begged for a night"s lodging.
He listened to them, and when he became aware of what they were saying, he grew very thoughtful and sad.
Because I am beginning to grow old, and had rather lie at my ease by the fire than run about the house after the mice, my mistress laid hold of me, and was going to drown me; and though I have been lucky enough to get away from her, I do not know what I am to live upon."
"Oh," said the ass, "by all means go with us to the great city; you are a good night singer, and may make your fortune as a musician."
The cat was pleased with the thought, and joined the party.
"With all my heart," said the cock: so they all four went on jollily together.
"Why, I see a table spread with all kinds of good things, and robbers sitting round it making merry."
The coast once clear, our travellers soon sat down and dispatched what the robbers had left, with as much eagerness as if they had not expected to eat again for a month.
After this the robbers never dared to go back to the house; but the musicians were so pleased with their quarters that they took up their abode there; and there they are, I dare say, at this very day.
But whilst they were getting all ready, they heard the trampling of a horse at a distance, which so frightened them that they pushed their prisoner neck and shoulders together into a sack, and swung him up by a cord to the tree, where they left him dangling, and ran away.
As soon as the man in the sack saw him passing under the tree, he cried out, "Good morning! good morning to thee, my friend!"
When the twelve princesses heard this they laughed heartily; and the eldest said, "This fellow too might have done a wiser thing than lose his life in this way!"
Then they rose up and opened their drawers and boxes, and took out all their fine clothes, and dressed themselves at the glass, and skipped about as if they were eager to begin dancing.
But the youngest said, "I don"t know how it is, while you are so happy I feel very uneasy; I am sure some mischance will befall us."
The soldier saw them going down through the trap-door one after another, the eldest leading the way; and thinking he had no time to lose, he jumped up, put on the cloak which the old woman had given him, and followed them; but in the middle of the stairs he trod on the gown of the youngest princess, and she cried out to her sisters, "All is not right; someone took hold of my gown."
Then the youngest daughter said again, "I am sure all is not right--did not you hear that noise?
And the soldier broke a branch from each; and every time there was a loud noise, which made the youngest sister tremble with fear; but the eldest still said, it was only the princes, who were crying for joy.
At this, too, the youngest sister was terribly frightened, but the eldest always silenced her.
The son was in such trouble that he did not think what he was doing, and said: "Yes, dear father, your will shall be done," and thereupon the king shut his eyes, and died.
His first betrothed heard of this, and fretted so much about his faithfulness that she nearly died.
The king thought something had happened to his dear huntsman, ran up to him, wanted to help him, and drew his glove off.
Then his heart was so touched that he kissed her, and when she opened her eyes he said: "You are mine, and I am yours, and no one in the world can alter that."
The giant took the trunk on his shoulder, but the tailor seated himself on a branch, and the giant, who could not look round, had to carry away the whole tree, and the little tailor into the bargain: he behind, was quite merry and happy, and whistled the song: "Three tailors rode forth from the gate," as if carrying the tree were child"s play.
But he did not venture to give him his dismissal, for he dreaded lest he should strike him and all his people dead, and place himself on the royal throne.
"I"ll put a screw into that business," said the little tailor.
His sons were very much grieved at their father"s sickness; and as they were walking together very mournfully in the garden of the palace, a little old man met them and asked what was the matter.
They told him that their father was very ill, and that they were afraid nothing could save him.
"Mind your own affairs, busybody!" said the prince scornfully, and rode on.
Then he sprang from the couch dreadfully frightened, ran to the well, filled a cup that was standing by him full of water, and hastened to get away in time.
The old king was still very angry with his youngest son, and thought that he really meant to have taken away his life; so he called his court together, and asked what should be done, and all agreed that he ought to be put to death.
"He is still alive," said the huntsman; "and I am glad that I had pity on him, but let him go in peace, and brought home his royal coat."
At this the king was overwhelmed with joy, and made it known thoughout all his kingdom, that if his son would come back to his court he would forgive him.
So he journeyed on, thinking of her all the way, and rode so quickly that he did not even see what the road was made of, but went with his horse straight over it; and as he came to the gate it flew open, and the princess welcomed him with joy, and said he was her deliverer, and should now be her husband and lord of the kingdom.
And now the old king gathered together his court, and asked all his kingdom to come and celebrate the wedding of his son and the princess.
And young and old, noble and squire, gentle and simple, came at once on the summons; and among the rest came the friendly dwarf, with the sugarloaf hat, and a new scarlet cloak.
And all the good people they danced and they sung, And feasted and frolick"d I can"t tell how long.
But when he saw it he could not deny himself the pleasure of tasting it, so he cut of a little bit and put it into his mouth.
The king ordered the man to be brought before him, and threatened with angry words that unless he could before the morrow point out the thief, he himself should be looked upon as guilty and executed.
In his trouble and fear he went down into the courtyard and took thought how to help himself out of his trouble.
They were telling one another of all the places where they had been waddling about all the morning, and what good food they had found; and one said in a pitiful tone: "Something lies heavy on my stomach; as I was eating in haste I swallowed a ring which lay under the queen"s window."
They leapt with delight, put out their heads, and cried to him: "We will remember you and repay you for saving us!"
Then they came hopping up to it, satisfied their hunger, and cried: "We will remember you--one good turn deserves another!"
All the people grieved for the handsome youth; then they went away, leaving him alone by the sea.
Full of joy he took it to the king and expected that he would grant him the promised reward.
But when the proud princess perceived that he was not her equal in birth, she scorned him, and required him first to perform another task.
The youth sat down in the garden and considered how it might be possible to perform this task, but he could think of nothing, and there he sat sorrowfully awaiting the break of day, when he should be led to death.
The youth, full of joy, set out homewards, and took the Golden Apple to the king"s beautiful daughter, who had now no more excuses left to make.
They cut the Apple of Life in two and ate it together; and then her heart became full of love for him, and they lived in undisturbed happiness to a great age.
The willow-wren with his army also came flying through the air with such a humming, and whirring, and swarming that every one was uneasy and afraid, and on both sides they advanced against each other.
There was once upon a time an old goat who had seven little kids, and loved them with all the love of a mother for her children.
Then the old one bleated, and went on her way with an easy mind.
The miller thought to himself: "The wolf wants to deceive someone," and refused; but the wolf said: "If you will not do it, I will devour you."
Then the miller was afraid, and made his paws white for him.
They were terrified and wanted to hide themselves.
Ah! what a sight she saw there!
Then you may imagine how she wept over her poor children.
At length in her grief she went out, and the youngest kid ran with her.
"Ah, heavens," she said, "is it possible that my poor children whom he has swallowed down for his supper, can be still alive?"
What rejoicing there was!
They embraced their dear mother, and jumped like a tailor at his wedding.
When the seven kids saw that, they came running to the spot and cried aloud: "The wolf is dead!
The wolf is dead!" and danced for joy round about the well with their mother.
"How lonely it is, wife," said he, as he puffed out a long curl of smoke, "for you and me to sit here by ourselves, without any children to play about and amuse us while other people seem so happy and merry with their children!"
"What you say is very true," said the wife, sighing, and turning round her wheel; "how happy should I be if I had but one child!
So they said, "Well, we cannot say we have not got what we wished for, and, little as he is, we will love him dearly."
When the time came the mother harnessed the horse to the cart, and put Tom into his ear; and as he sat there the little man told the beast how to go, crying out, "Go on!" and "Stop!" as he wanted: and thus the horse went on just as well as if the woodman had driven it himself into the wood.
"Good night, my masters!" said he, "I"m off! mind and look sharp after me the next time."
He still, however, slept on, and did not awake till he found himself in the mouth of the cow; for the cook had put the hay into the cow"s rick, and the cow had taken Tom up in a mouthful of it.
But he soon found out where he really was; and was forced to have all his wits about him, that he might not get between the cow"s teeth, and so be crushed to death.
"It is rather dark," said he; "they forgot to build windows in this room to let the sun in; a candle would be no bad thing."
A hungry wolf sprang out, and swallowed up the whole stomach, with Tom in it, at one gulp, and ran away.
And his father said, "Heaven be praised! we have found our dear child again"; and he told his wife not to use the scythe for fear she should hurt him.
Then he aimed a great blow, and struck the wolf on the head, and killed him on the spot! and when he was dead they cut open his body, and set Tommy free.
"Ah!" said the father, "what fears we have had for you!"
"Yes, father," answered he; "I have travelled all over the world, I think, in one way or other, since we parted; and now I am very glad to come home and get fresh air again."
"Well," said they, "you are come back, and we will not sell you again for all the riches in the world."
Then they hugged and kissed their dear little son, and gave him plenty to eat and drink, for he was very hungry; and then they fetched new clothes for him, for his old ones had been quite spoiled on his journey.
So Master Thumb stayed at home with his father and mother, in peace; for though he had been so great a traveller, and had done and seen so many fine things, and was fond enough of telling the whole story, he always agreed that, after all, there"s no place like HOME!
"It is very unpleasant, I am afraid of the police," said Pickles.
Pickles nearly had a fit, he barked and he barked and made little rushes.
He shut the door in Nutkin's face.
Old Mr. Brown turned up his eyes in disgust at the impertinence of Nutkin.
And to this day, if you meet Nutkin up a tree and ask him a riddle, he will throw sticks at you, and stamp his feet and scold, and shout--
"I am dreadfully afraid it WILL be mouse!" said Duchess to herself--"I really couldn't, COULDN'T eat mouse pie.
"Quite well, I thank you, and how do YOU do, my dear Ribby?" said Duchess.
"I've brought you some flowers; what a delicious smell of pie!"
"Oh, what lovely flowers!
Oh, my dear Ribby, I do feel so ill!"
"Oh I do feel so ill ALL OVER me, my dear Ribby."
But while Ribby had been hunting for the doctor--a curious thing had happened to Duchess, who had been left by herself, sitting before the fire, sighing and groaning and feeling very unhappy.
"How COULD I have swallowed it! such a large thing as a patty-pan!"
She sat down again, and stared mournfully at the grate.
Duchess started!
"I am truly glad to hear it!
Ribby and Duchess said good-bye affectionately, and Duchess started home.
Ribby stared with amazement-- "Did you ever see the like! so there really WAS a patty-pan?
Mrs. Tabitha became more and more distracted and mewed dreadfully.
But just at that moment somebody knocked at the front door, and Moppet jumped into the flour barrel in a fright.
Mittens ran away to the dairy and hid in an empty jar on the stone shelf where the milk pans stand.
I'm in sad trouble, Cousin Ribby," said Tabitha, shedding tears.
"He's a bad kitten, Cousin Tabitha; he made a cat's cradle of my best bonnet last time I came to tea.
"The chimney wants sweeping-- Oh, dear me, Cousin Ribby--now Moppet and Mittens are gone!
"Yes, it is infested with rats," said Tabitha tearfully.
"The rats get upon my nerves, Cousin Ribby," said Tabitha.
She seemed to be in a terrible fright.
"Oh, Mother, Mother!" said Mittens--
"Oh!
Oh, my poor son Thomas!" exclaimed Tabitha, wringing her paws.
Tom Kitten was getting very frightened!
There was less smoke, but Tom Kitten felt quite lost.
I wish I had never come!
"What do you mean by tumbling into my bed all covered with smuts?" said the rat, chattering his teeth.
"Nonsense!
While Tom Kitten was left alone under the floor of the attic, he wriggled about and tried to mew for help.
Tom Kitten wriggled and squirmed until he was quite exhausted.
Tom Kitten bit and spit, and mewed and wriggled; and the rolling pin went roly-poly, roly; roly-poly, roly.
Anna Maria was about to argue the point when all at once there began to be other sounds up above--the rasping noise of a saw, and the noise of a little dog, scratching and yelping!
As for Farmer Potatoes, he has been driven nearly distracted.
It feels sad.
And then all of a sudden--Miss Moppet jumps upon the Mouse!
But she forgot about that hole in the duster; and when she untied it-- there was no Mouse!
He has wriggled out and run away; and he is dancing a jig on top of the cupboard!
The tailor replied: "Simpkin, we shall make our fortune, but I am worn to a ravelling.
Then the tailor started; for suddenly, interrupting him, from the dresser at the other side of the kitchen came a number of little noises--
"This is passing extraordinary!" said the Tailor of Gloucester, and turned over another tea-cup, which was upside down.
But Simpkin hid a little parcel privately in the tea-pot, and spit and growled at the tailor; and if Simpkin had been able to talk, he would have asked: "Where is my MOUSE?"
"Alack, I am undone!" said the Tailor of Gloucester, and went sadly to bed.
The poor old tailor was very ill with a fever, tossing and turning in his four-post bed; and still in his dreams he mumbled: "No more twist! no more twist!"
The little mice only laughed, and tried another tune--
"Alack," said the tailor, "I have my twist; but no more strength--nor time--than will serve to make me one single buttonhole; for this is Christmas Day in the Morning!
Little Benjamin did not very much want to see his Aunt.
Peter did not seem to be enjoying himself; he kept hearing noises.
Benjamin, on the contrary, was perfectly at home, and ate a lettuce leaf.
Peter did not eat anything; he said he should like to go home.
Peter heard noises worse than ever; his eyes were as big as lolly-pops!
The cat was too much surprised to scratch back.
When Mr. McGregor returned about half an hour later he observed several things which perplexed him.
Listen to the story of Jemima Puddle-duck, who was annoyed because the farmer's wife would not let her hatch her own eggs.
She rather fancied a tree stump amongst some tall foxgloves.
But--seated upon the stump, she was startled to find an elegantly dressed gentleman reading a newspaper.
Jemima complained of the superfluous hen.
Jemima Puddle-duck was rather surprised to find such a vast quantity of feathers.
The foxy gentleman admired them immensely.
When Jemima alighted he quite jumped.
Jemima became much alarmed.
"What a mercy that was not a pike!" said Mr. Jeremy Fisher.
The rabbits could not bear him; they could smell him half a mile off.
Old Mr. Bouncer coughed and laughed; and Tommy Brock puffed and grinned.
And Mr. Bouncer laughed and coughed, and shut his eyes because of the cabbage smoke ..........
He was in disgrace; Flopsy wrung her ears, and slapped him.
What a nasty person!" said Peter.
He had nodded, and pointed to the sack, and seemed doubled up with laughing.--"Come away, Peter; he will be cooking them; come quicker!" said Benjamin Bunny.
When they came near the wood at the top of Bull Banks, they went cautiously.
The rabbits crept up carefully, listening and peeping.
The rabbits shivered in their shoes.
The young family were alive; shut up in the oven!
Benjamin was so excited that it was a mercy he did not awake Tommy Brock, whose snores continued solemnly in Mr. Tod's bed.
Then those two rabbits lost their heads completely.
Mr. Tod was coming up Bull Banks, and he was in the very worst of tempers.
First he had been upset by breaking the plate.
Mr. Tod had had an unsatisfactory night.
He made his way up the hill; his temper was not improved by noticing unmistakable marks of badger.
Mr. Tod slapped his stick upon the earth and fumed; he guessed where Tommy Brock had gone to.
He was further annoyed by the jay bird which followed him persistently.
The sight that met Mr. Tod's eyes in Mr. Tod's kitchen made Mr. Tod furious.
His whiskers bristled and his coat collar stood on end with rage.
When he was outside the house, he scratched up the earth with fury.
The moment he had gone, Tommy Brock got up in a hurry; he rolled Mr. Tod's dressing-gown into a bundle, put it into the bed beneath the pail of water instead of himself, and left the room also-- grinning immensely.
At last the rope gave way with such a sudden jerk that it nearly pulled his teeth out, and quite knocked him over backwards.
He was quite dry himself and grinning; and he threw the cup of scalding tea all over Mr. Tod.
Then Mr. Tod rushed upon Tommy Brock, and Tommy Brock grappled with Mr. Tod amongst the broken crockery, and there was a terrific battle all over the kitchen.
They crept out of their tunnel, and hung about amongst the rocks and bushes, listening anxiously.
The rabbit babies in the oven woke up trembling; perhaps it was fortunate they were shut up inside.
But Benjamin was frightened--
"Oh; oh! they are coming back!"
After quarreling at supper, Flopsy and old Mr. Bouncer had passed a sleepless night, and quarrelled again at breakfast.
In Mr. Tod's kitchen, amidst the wreckage, Benjamin Bunny picked his way to the oven nervously, through a thick cloud of dust.
Great was old Mr. Bouncer's relief and Flopsy's joy when Peter and Benjamin arrived in triumph with the young family.
One day little Lucie came into the farm-yard crying--oh, she did cry so!
A little frightened voice called out "Who's that?"
There was a nice hot singey smell; and at the table, with an iron in her hand, stood a very stout short person staring anxiously at Lucie.
Her little black nose went sniffle, sniffle, snuffle, and her eyes went twinkle, twinkle; and underneath her cap-where Lucie had yellow curls-that little person had PRICKLES!
"Oh that IS lovely!" said Lucie.
And she gave them their nice clean clothes; and all the little animals and birds were so very much obliged to dear Mrs. Tiggy-winkle.
"Go away, you bold bad spider!
Mrs. Tittlemouse looked at her severely.
Mrs. Tittle- mouse began to get cross.
"I am not in the habit of letting lodgings; this is an intrusion!" said Mrs. Tittlemouse.
He was sitting all over a small rocking chair, twiddling his thumbs and smiling, with his feet on the fender.
"Thank you, thank you, thank you, Mrs. Tittlemouse!
He sat and smiled, and the water dripped off his coat tails.
"Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Tittlemouse!
"Thank you, thank you, thank you, Mrs. Tittlemouse!
Now what I really--REALLY should like-- would be a little dish of honey!"
"Get out, you nasty old toad!" shrieked Babbitty Bumble.
"I shall go distracted!" scolded Mrs. Tittlemouse.
But the untidiness was something dreadful--"Never did I see such a mess--smears of honey; and moss, and thistledown--and marks of big and little dirty feet-- all over my nice clean house!"
But round the end of a cucumber frame, whom should he meet but Mr. McGregor!
Peter was most dreadfully frightened; he rushed all over the garden, for he had forgotten the way back to the gate.
Peter gave himself up for lost, and shed big tears; but his sobs were overheard by some friendly sparrows, who flew to him in great excitement, and implored him to exert himself.
Peter sat down to rest; he was out of breath and trembling with fright, and he had not the least idea which way to go.
Peter began to cry.
The eight little pigs had very fine appetites--"Yus, yus, yus! they eat and indeed they DO eat!" said Aunt Pettitoes, looking at her family with pride.
Suddenly there were fearful squeals; Alexander had squeezed inside the hoops of the pig trough and stuck.
Aunt Pettitoes wiped her eyes with a large pocket handkerchief, then she wiped Pigling Bland's nose and shed tears; then she wiped Alexander's nose and shed tears; then she passed the handkerchief to Spot.
Aunt Pettitoes sighed and grunted, and addressed those little pigs as follows--
Pigling Bland who was a sedate little pig, looked solemnly at his mother, a tear trickled down his cheek.
Alexander went into squeals of laughter.
Pigling Bland reproved Alexander.
But presently they made it up again, and trotted away together, singing--
Pigling Bland was shocked, there was little hope of sleeping in Market Town, and tomorrow was the hiring fair; it was deplorable to think how much time had been wasted by the frivolity of Alexander.
Pigling Bland became frightened and cried "Wee, wee, wee!
I can't find my way home!"
He saw a small wooden hut, made his way to it, and crept inside --"I am afraid it IS a hen house, but what can I do?" said Pigling Bland, wet and cold and quite tired out.
"Trap, trap, trap! cackle, cackle, cackle!" scolded the disturbed cockerel.
Pigling Bland, much alarmed, determined to leave at daybreak.
A perfectly lovely little black Berkshire pig stood smiling beside him.
Pig-wig looked anxious.
"I thought you had eaten them?" said Pigling, waking suddenly.
I have tooth- ache," said Pigling much dismayed.
He was afraid to go to sleep himself; for the rest of the night he sat listening to the chirping of the crickets and to the snores of Mr. Piperson overhead.
The poor swineherd took these words to heart, for they were addressed to him; he knew not that there were others who were equally ignorant.
Then the king, in his melancholy, wandered out to the spot in the wood.
And the old grandfather nodded again; and the more he looked at Holger Danske, the more satisfied he felt that he had carved a good image of him.
The old grandfather wiped his eyes, for he had known King Frederick, with his silvery locks and his honest blue eyes, and had lived for him, and he folded his hands and remained for some time silent.
They ran on a little farther, and then Christina fell down, and began to cry.
Presently the scream of an eagle sounded through the wood; it was an ugly cry, and it frightened the children; but before them, in the thickest part of the forest, grew the most beautiful blackberries, in wonderful quantities.
So they went on, but the road led them out of the way; no house could be seen, it grew dark, and the children were afraid.
At last they both lost themselves in the thicket; Christina began to cry, and then Ib cried too; and, after weeping and lamenting for some time, they stretched themselves down on the dry leaves and fell asleep.
Great quantities of fish could be seen through the clear water, sparkling in the sun's rays; they were quite surprised when they came so suddenly upon such an unexpected sight.
He could not utter a word; he could only seize her hand and hold it fast in his own, but he felt too happy and glad to open his lips.
His eyes brightened, and the words he uttered came with hesitation from his lips, but from the deepest recesses of his heart: "Christina, if you have not become too grand, and if you can be contented to live in my mother's house as my wife, we will be married some day.
I can trust you, for I believe that I do love you.
At first Ib said not a word, but he became as white as the wall, and shook his head gently, and then he spoke,- "Christina must not refuse this good fortune."
Very little was said about the matter to Ib, and he did not refer to it; his mother, however, noticed that he had grown very silent and pensive.
At last a very little girl came out of one of the wretched-looking houses, and Ib asked her to tell him the way to the street he wanted; she looked up timidly at him, and began to cry bitterly.
Her youngest child, looked for in the midst of prosperity, had sunk into the grave when only a few weeks old; and at last Christina herself became sick unto death, and lay, forsaken and dying, in a miserable room, amid poverty she might have borne in her younger days, but which was now more painful to her from the luxuries to which she had lately been accustomed.
It makes me unhappy to think that I shall die, and leave this poor child," sighed she.
The Grasshopper only sprang half as high, but he sprang straight into the King's face, and the King declared that was horribly rude.
And then he sang his own melancholy song, and from that we have gathered this story, which they say is not true, though it's in print.
"Everything around me is so wonderfully bright and warm, and beautiful, that it makes me joyous."
You may have thousands of my days, but I have thousands of moments in which I can be merry and happy.
And the little creature danced and floated in the air, rejoicing in her delicate wings of gauze and velvet, rejoicing in the balmy breezes, laden with the fragrance of clover-fields and wild roses, elder-blossoms and honeysuckle, from the garden hedges, wild thyme, primroses, and mint, and the scent of all these was so strong that the perfume almost intoxicated the little fly.
The long and beautiful day had been so full of joy and sweet delights, that when the sun sank low it felt tired of all its happiness and enjoyment.
The same thing was continued through many generations of Ephemera; all of them felt equally merry and equally happy.
Once, but long years had intervened since then, guitars and Eolian harps had been hung on his boughs by merry travellers; now they seemed to hang there again, and he could hear their marvellous tones.
Then it seemed as if new life was thrilling through every fibre of root and stem and leaf, rising even to the highest branches.
As he grew higher and still higher, with increased strength, his topmost boughs became broader and fuller; and in proportion to his growth, so was his self-satisfaction increased, and with it arose a joyous longing to grow higher and higher, to reach even to the warm, bright sun itself.
The grand, majestic oak could not be quite happy in the midst of his enjoyment, while all the rest, both great and small, were not with him.
At length his longing was satisfied.
May beetles hummed, the bees murmured, the birds sang, each in his own way; the air was filled with the sounds of song and gladness."
"Why this is beautiful, too beautiful to be believed," said the oak in a joyful tone.
Can such happiness be imagined?"
Thus sounded the old Christmas carol, and every one on board the ship felt his thoughts elevated, through the song and the prayer, even as the old tree had felt lifted up in its last, its beautiful dream on that Christmas morn.
Tears of sorrow rolled down their cheeks, and fell in heavy drops on the floor, but not a word was spoken.
With silent steps, still sobbing, they left the room.
They looked at Little Claus ploughing with his five horses, and he was so proud that he smacked his whip, and said, "Gee-up, my five horses."
"I promise you I will not say it any more," said the other; but as soon as people came by, nodding to him, and wishing him "Good day," he became so pleased, and thought how grand it looked to have five horses ploughing in his field, that he cried out again, "Gee-up, all my horses!"
"Oh, now I have no horse at all, said Little Claus, weeping.
When she heard the farmer coming she was frightened, and begged the sexton to hide himself in a large empty chest that stood in the room.
So the woman was obliged to bring out the wine also, which she had hidden, and the farmer drank it till he became quite merry.
"I should like to see him now, while I am so merry."
"Will you come and help me hold it?" said the farmer, going towards the chest in which his wife had hidden the sexton, who now lay inside, very much frightened.
"Skins, skins!" they cried, mocking him; "yes, we'll mark your skin for you, till it is black and blue."
She had been cross, unkind, and really spiteful to him; but he was very sorry, and took the dead woman and laid her in his warm bed to see if he could bring her to life again.
Again and again he bawled it out, but as she did not stir he flew into a passion, and threw the glass of mead in her face; it struck her on the nose, and she fell backwards out of the cart, for she was only seated there, not tied in.
Great Claus got so frightened that he rushed out of the surgery, jumped into the cart, whipped up his horses, and drove home quickly.
"And I, poor fellow," said the drover, "I who am so old already, cannot get there."
"Yes, if I only knew a fresh one," said the old man, and nodded smilingly.
He was an old, old sailor, and she his old wife; they had already great-grandchildren, and were soon to celebrate their golden wedding, but they could not remember the date, and the elder-tree mother was sitting in the tree and looked as pleased as this one here.
I tore it open and read it; I cried and laughed at the same time, and was so happy!
The elder-tree smelt strongly, and the setting sun illuminated the faces of the two old people, so that they looked quite rosy; the youngest of the grandchildren danced round them, and cried merrily that there would be a feast in the evening, for they were to have hot potatoes; and the elder mother nodded in the tree and cried 'Hooray' with the others."
She and the boy kissed each other, and then they were of the same age and felt the same joys.
"You must know that as soon as the king and all the court are gone into the town, the flowers run out of the garden into the castle, and you should see how merry they are.
It was saying, 'You are so pretty, I like you very much.'
"Oh how funny!" said Ida, and she laughed.
He did not like the student, and would grumble when he saw him cutting out droll or amusing pictures.
But the lawyer did not like such jokes, and he would say as he had just said, "How can anyone put such nonsense into a child's head! what absurd fancies there are!"
So she took the doll out, who looked quite cross, and said not a single word, for she was angry at being turned out of her bed.
They did not look ill at all now, but jumped about and were very merry, yet none of them noticed little Ida.
All at once the wax doll which rode on the carnival rod seemed to grow larger and taller, and it turned round and said to the paper flowers, "How can you put such things in a child's head? they are all foolish fancies;" and then the doll was exactly like the lawyer with the broad brimmed hat, and looked as yellow and as cross as he did; but the paper dolls struck him on his thin legs, and he shrunk up again and became quite a little wax doll.
This was very amusing, and Ida could not help laughing.
Then Sophy raised himself, and looked round quite astonished, "There must be a ball here to-night," said Sophy.
Then Sophy was very happy, and said they might keep her bed; she did not mind lying in the drawer at all.
"You are not kind at all," said Ida; "and yet they all danced with you."
Shivering with cold and hunger, she crept along; poor little child, she looked the picture of misery.
She took the little girl in her arms, and they both flew upwards in brightness and joy far above the earth, where there was neither cold nor hunger nor pain, for they were with God.
Here she slept at night, but during the day she amused herself on a table, where the woman had placed a plateful of water.
The tiny little creature woke very early in the morning, and began to cry bitterly when she found where she was, for she could see nothing but water on every side of the large green leaf, and no way of reaching the land.
"Croak, croak, croak," was all her son could say for himself; so the toad took up the elegant little bed, and swam away with it, leaving Tiny all alone on the green leaf, where she sat and wept.
She could not bear to think of living with the old toad, and having her ugly son for a husband.
As soon as they caught sight of her, they saw she was very pretty, and it made them very sorry to think that she must go and live with the ugly toads.
Tiny pleased him, and she was glad of it, for now the toad could not possibly reach her, and the country through which she sailed was beautiful, and the sun shone upon the water, till it glittered like liquid gold.
Oh, how frightened little Tiny felt when the cockchafer flew with her to the tree!
Then he flew down with her from the tree, and placed her on a daisy, and she wept at the thought that she was so ugly that even the cockchafers would have nothing to say to her.
She felt dreadfully cold, for her clothes were torn, and she was herself so frail and delicate, that poor little Tiny was nearly frozen to death.
She was very pleased with Tiny, so she said, "You are quite welcome to stay with me all the winter, if you like; but you must keep my rooms clean and neat, and tell me stories, for I shall like to hear them very much."
And Tiny did all the field-mouse asked her, and found herself very comfortable.
It made little Tiny very sad to see it, she did so love the little birds; all the summer they had sung and twittered for her so beautifully.
Then she laid her head on the bird's breast, but she was alarmed immediately, for it seemed as if something inside the bird went "thump, thump."
Tiny trembled very much; she was quite frightened, for the bird was large, a great deal larger than herself,- she was only an inch high.
The whole winter the swallow remained underground, and Tiny nursed him with care and love.
Tiny looked after him, and the tears rose in her eyes.
"Tweet, tweet," sang the bird, as he flew out into the green woods, and Tiny felt very sad.
But Tiny was not at all pleased; for she did not like the tiresome mole.
Then Tiny wept, and said she would not marry the disagreeable mole.
The poor child was very unhappy at the thought of saying farewell to the beautiful sun, and as the field-mouse had given her permission to stand at the door, she went to look at it once more.
As soon as he spied Tiny, he was delighted; and then she told him how unwilling she felt to marry the ugly mole, and to live always beneath the earth, and never to see the bright sun any more.
And as she told him she wept.
"That will be delightful," she said, and clapped her little hands for joy.
The little prince was at first quite frightened at the bird, who was like a giant, compared to such a delicate little creature as himself; but when he saw Tiny, he was delighted, and thought her the prettiest little maiden he had ever seen.
But I am fragrant with perfume, for close to my gates most lovely roses bloom."
The old washerwoman put her head in at the door, and nodded to him quite kindly, and said, "Many thanks, you good child, for your help yesterday.
"I know where it blooms," said a happy mother, who came with her lovely child to the bedside of the queen.
She wept over it, kissed it, and prayed for it as only a mother can pray in that hour of her anguish."
Tears stood in his eyes, and glistened on his cheeks; he carried a great book and the binding was of velvet, with silver clasps.
He seemed a merry fellow.
He looked very jovial, did little work, and had the more holidays.
How pretty she was! and such a singer! not a theatre singer, nor a ballad singer; no, but a singer of the woods; for she wandered through the gay green forest, and had a concert there for her own amusement.
He was hungry and thirsty, yet no one gave him anything; and when it became dark, and they were about to close the gardens, the porter turned him out.
The little boy said not a word; he was half pleased and half afraid.
One glory eclipsed another; yet there was one picture that fixed itself on the little boy's memory, more especially because of the happy children it represented, for these the little boy had seen in daylight.
The boy raised his hands towards the smiling children, and then the Pig ran off with him through the open vestibule.
Fear and trembling came upon him as he thought of his mother; she had sent him out the day before to get some money, he had not done so, and now he was hungry and thirsty.
Here everything was bright, and the boy knelt down by the first tomb on his right, the grave of Michael Angelo, and sobbed as if his heart would break.
Hunger and thirst overpowered the child, and he became quite faint and ill.
A little homely bed was prepared for him, but to him who had so often slept on the hard stones it was a royal couch, and he slept sweetly and dreamed of the splendid pictures and of the Metal Pig.
He wept at the thought, and then he played with the little, lively dog, and kissed it, while the old woman looked kindly at him to encourage him.
So the boy stayed with them, and the woman herself taught him to sew; and he ate well, and slept well, and became very merry.
They stopped before the picture by Bronzino, in which Christ is represented as standing in the lower world, with the children smiling before Him, in the sweet expectation of entering heaven; and the poor boy smiled, too, for here was his heaven.
A fiery dragon could not have frightened the little boy so much as did the little dog in this place.
Giuseppe went off at once, while his wife lamented, and the boy wept.
Then there was great rejoicing, and the painter caressed the boy, and gave him a number of pictures.
Certainly it was rather crooked, rather up and down, one leg thick, and another thin; still it was like the copy, and he was overjoyed at what he had done.
He knew very well that he had enough inside him to buy up all the other toys, and this gave him a very good opinion of his own value.
The doll, whose neck had been darned, was so excited that the place in her neck burst, and the money-pig declared he must do something for one of the players, as they had all pleased him so much.
The sun shone among the delicate leaves; everything breathed forth the loveliest fragrance, and all felt as we do when we are filled with joy at the thought of our happiness.
I am heartily tired of such neighbours."
"We make it lively about the house," said the sparrow-mother; "and people say that a swallows' nest brings luck; so they are glad of us.
But they were very pleased with it, and wondered whether all the little sparrows could become nightingales.
The horse-hair was drawn tightly round her leg- as tightly as if the latter were to be cut off; she was in great pain and terror.
He was a merry old man, always wandering about.
At these words an icy shudder ran through the sparrow-mother.
But she, trembling in every limb, did not think of the adornment.
"Now you will see the gold-jacket fly," said the old man, letting the sparrow go, which flew away in deadly fear, with the sun shining upon her.
All the sparrows, and even a crow- and an old boy he was too- were startled at the sight; but still they flew after her to learn what kind of strange bird she was.
Driven by fear and horror, she flew homeward; she was almost sinking fainting to the earth, while the flock of pursuing birds increased, some even attempting to peck at her.
Then they all got excited; they hit out with their wings, pecked with their beaks, and flop! one after another was thrown out of the nest.
There they lay with their anger, holding their heads on one side and blinking the eye that was turned upwards.
And the eyes of all sparkled with malice.
The roses nodded; they recognized their grey neighbours and were pleased to see them again.
The books travelled all over the world, and some of them came into the hands of the emperor; and he sat in his golden chair, and, as he read, he nodded his approval every moment, for it pleased him to find such a beautiful description of his city, his palace, and his gardens.
Then the tears come into my eyes, and it is just as if my mother kissed me."
"With the greatest pleasure," said the nightingale, and began to sing most delightfully.
The nightingale sang so sweetly that the tears came into the emperor's eyes, and then rolled down his cheeks, as her song became still more touching and went to every one's heart.
The emperor was so delighted that he declared the nightingale should have his gold slipper to wear round her neck, but she declined the honor with thanks: she had been sufficiently rewarded already.
So a year passed, and the emperor, the court, and all the other Chinese knew every little turn in the artificial bird's song; and for that same reason it pleased them better.
Now there was great sorrow, as the bird could only be allowed to play once a year; and even that was dangerous for the works inside it.
Cold and pale lay the emperor in his royal bed; the whole court thought he was dead, and every one ran away to pay homage to his successor.
These are the jewels that rejoice a singer's heart.
I will sit on a bough outside your window, in the evening, and sing to you, so that you may be happy, and have thoughts full of joy.
The servants now came in to look after the dead emperor; when, lo! there he stood, and, to their astonishment, said, "Good morning."
She said this merrily, for she was the best of the hens, and, moreover, as had been said, very respectable.
If I were a cock, I should despise her."
The hen who had lost the loose little feather naturally did not recognise her own story, and being a respectable hen, said: "I despise those fowls; but there are more of that kind.
He's angry to-day.
"'Could I but have my love, Who then so happy as Glove!
And so it was with Anthony; often the scalding tears, like pearly drops, would fall from his eyes to the coverlet and roll on the floor with a sound as if one of his heartstrings had broken.
If he dried his eyes with his nightcap, then the tear and the picture would be crushed; but the source of the tears remained and welled up again in his heart.
Then they got a flower-pot, filled it with earth, and were soon both very busy and eager about it.
And Molly and Anthony both wept, but these tears all flowed together into one tear which had the rosy shimmer of joy.
One stanza pleased him exceedingly-
Hot iron and cold iron alike take the skin from our lips, and we feel the same sensation if we kiss either; and Anthony's kiss was now the kiss of hatred, as it had once been the kiss of love.
Sorrow and suffering deprived Anthony's father of his strength, so that he had something else to think of besides nursing his love-sorrows and his anger against Molly.
How much came back to his remembrance as he looked through the tears once more on his native town!
There lay the old bachelor, forsaken by all, and unable to help himself.
The fragrant leaves of the tree fell upon him and cooled his burning brow; upon his parched lips they seemed like refreshing bread and wine; and as they rested on his breast, a peaceful calm stole over him, and he felt inclined to sleep.
In that solemn hour the sweet and joyous chiming filled the hearts of those in the humble dwelling with thankfulness and trust; and when, amidst these joyous sounds, a little son was born to them, the words of prayer and praise arose from their overflowing hearts, and their happiness seemed to ring out over town and country in the liquid tones of the church bells' chime.
Its parents kissed it lovingly, and the father wrote these words in the Bible, "On the tenth of November, 1759, God sent us a son."
He and his sister, two years older than himself, had often wept scalding tears over the story of Him who suffered death on the cross for us all.
His mother also told him how the chiming of that old bell had once filled her heart with joy and confidence, and that in the midst of the sweet tones her child had been given to her.
A record of this bright display will live in the memory of man, for through it the pupil in the military school was in tears and sorrow.
Dark days and cold nights also passed over the old bell, and it noticed them not; but the bell in the man's heart felt it to be a gloomy time.
The corpse lay in a bedroom, near to the one in which we sat, and the old man was in great distress and weeping like a child.
He spoke to my father, and to a few neighbors who were there, of how lonely he should feel now she was gone, and how good and true she, his dead wife, had been during the number of years that they had passed through life together, and how they had become acquainted, and learnt to love each other.
And then he talked of his wedding-day; and his eyes brightened, and he seemed to be carried back, by his words, to that joyful time.
And the old attendant nodded and looked very pleased, and then he carried the tin soldier into the house.
"Oh," replied the old man, "I have pleasant thoughts of all that has passed, recalled by memory; and now you are come to visit me, and that is very pleasant."
"I cannot endure it," said the tin soldier, who stood on a shelf, "it is so lonely and dull here.
Then the old man came back with a pleasant face; and brought with him beautiful preserved fruits, as well as apples and nuts; and the little boy thought no more of the tin soldier.
How happy and delighted the little boy was; and after he returned home, and while days and weeks passed, a great deal of nodding took place from one house to the other, and then the little boy went to pay another visit.
"I cannot bear it any longer," said the tin soldier; "I have wept tears of tin, it is so melancholy here.
Then he looked at the picture he had bought at the broker's, and his eyes sparkled brightly as he nodded at it, and said, "Ah, she could sing that tune."
The sparrows assembled in dozens upon the wild vines, and chattered all together as loud as they could, but not about the old house; none of them could remember it, for many years had passed by, so many indeed, that the little boy was now a man, and a really good man too, and his parents were very proud of him.
"Let me see him," said the young man, and then he smiled and shook his head, and said, "It can scarcely be the same, but it reminds me of something that happened to one of my tin soldiers when I was a little boy."
"Yes, terribly lonely," cried the tin soldier; "still it is delightful not to be forgotten."
He bent his head mournfully, and sighed in deep sorrow, as an unquiet spirit might sigh.
Song doth not carry them forth over the lands, nor into the hearts of men; therefore I have no rest and no peace."
Then the face of the dead one gleamed like the margin of the cloud in the moonlight.
How sweetly they sing there; it is quite a pleasure to listen to them!
"Well, then, why do you lie in my way?" she retorted, "you must not be so touchy.
I have nerves of my own, but I do not cry 'tweet.'"
When madam awoke afterwards, there he stood before her with a little corn he had found, and laid it at her feet; but as she had not slept well, she was naturally in a bad temper.
Don't stand there, looking so stupid."
"Impertinent creature!" exclaimed the Portuguese duck: "would you compare me with the cat- that beast of prey?
"You'll kill me with your crowing," she cried, "it's all your fault.
"We shall never have another singing-bird again amongst us; he was almost a Chinese," they whispered, and then they wept with such a noisy, clucking sound, that all the other fowls clucked too, but the ducks went about with redder eyes afterwards.
"Justice must still be carried out, even when one has relations and good friends among the prize committee; but that the snail should have received the second prize, I consider almost an insult to myself" "No," said the fence-rail, who had been a witness at the distribution of prizes; "there should be some consideration for industry and perseverance.
But I do not understand chattering and boasting; on the contrary, I despise it."
And the snail spat at them with contempt.
She was frightened, and wanted to throw the red shoes away; but they stuck fast.
"Mercy!" cried Karen.
And she went quickly up to the church-door; but when she came there, the red shoes were dancing before her, and she was frightened, and turned back.
During the whole week she was sad and wept many bitter tears, but when Sunday came again she said: "Now I have suffered and striven enough.
Then she became terrified, and turned back and repented right heartily of her sin.
On the following Sunday they all went to church, and she was asked whether she wished to go too; but, with tears in her eyes, she looked sadly at her crutches.
Here she sat down with her hymn-book, and as she was reading it with a pious mind, the wind carried the notes of the organ over to her from the church, and in tears she lifted up her face and said: "O God! help me!"
"What! is he going to propose to me?" said the scissors, and she became so angry that she cut too sharply into the shirt collar, and it was obliged to be thrown by as useless.
"Summer cannot show a more beautiful sight," she exclaimed, while her eyes sparkled.
The girl laughed, and nodded at the Snow Man, and then tripped away over the snow with her friend.
"But we are very much frightened," said the young storks, and they drew back their heads into the nests.
"Oh, o- h!" cried the young storks.
The young storks were very angry, and grew worse as they grew older; so at last their mother was obliged to promise that they should be revenged, but not until the day of their departure.
The emperor ordered them to be carried into the great hall where the princess was just playing "Visitors are coming" with her ladies-in-waiting; when she saw the large cases with the presents therein, she clapped her hands for joy.
"You are right," said the emperor, and began to cry like a little child.
When the princess with her ladies passed by and heard the tune, she stopped and looked quite pleased, for she also could play it- in fact, it was the only tune she could play, and she played it with one finger.
That was a pleasure!
The ladies danced and clapped their hands for joy.
"Go out of my sight," said the emperor, for he was very angry; and both the princess and the swineherd were banished from the empire.
There she stood and cried, the swineherd scolded her, and the rain came down in torrents.
Oh, how wretched I am!"
"Ugh, you beast!" said the farm laborer who emptied the bucket, when he saw the toad.
She was glad that in her ugliness she had frightened the fowls.
Yes, I shall get to Egypt, for I feel so happy!
Far in the interior of the wood, where a noisy swarm of laborers were working, stood Waldemar Daa and his three daughters, and all were laughing at the wild cries of the birds, excepting one, the youngest, Anna Dorothea, who felt grieved to the heart; and when they made preparations to fell a tree that was almost dead, and on whose naked branches the black stork had built her nest, she saw the poor little things stretching out their necks, and she begged for mercy for them, with the tears in her eyes.
Ida and Anna Dorothea wept bitterly, Joanna stood, pale and proud, biting her lips till the blood came; but what could that avail?
I suppose he is under the ground now; and Ida- alas! alas! it is not ended yet; miserable that I am!
It touched the tin soldier so much to see her that he almost wept tin tears, but he kept them back.
However, he passed a very pleasant time; went to the theatre, drove in the king's garden, and gave a great deal of money to the poor, which was very good of him; he remembered what it had been in olden times to be without a shilling.
Now he was rich, had fine clothes, and many friends, who all declared he was a fine fellow and a real gentleman, and all this gratified him exceedingly.
"And here is one, and there is another!" they all exclaimed; for there were crosses on all the doors in every direction.
The shoemaker's boy liked the idea of getting the four shillings, so he ran very fast and fetched the tinder-box, and gave it to the soldier.
The princess came out of the copper castle, and became queen, which was very pleasing to her.
But the ball, which wore a dress of morocco leather, and thought as much of herself as any other young lady, would not even condescend to reply.
"I know very well where she is," sighed the top; "she is in the swallow's nest, and has married the swallow."
"Ah," she exclaimed, "here is a gilt top."
The duck stared at it and exclaimed, "It is very large and not at all like the others.
"He is too big," they all said, and the turkey cock, who had been born into the world with spurs, and fancied himself really an emperor, puffed himself out like a vessel in full sail, and flew at the duckling, and became quite red in the head with passion, so that the poor little thing did not know where to go, and was quite miserable because he was so ugly and laughed at by the whole farmyard.
Here he remained the whole night, feeling very tired and sorrowful.
How they terrified the poor duckling!
She laid good eggs, and her mistress loved her as if she had been her own child.
So the duckling sat in a corner, feeling very low spirited, till the sunshine and the fresh air came into the room through the open door, and then he began to feel such a great longing for a swim on the water, that he could not help telling the hen.
All this was very sad for the poor little duckling.
The duckling had never seen any like them before.
Could he ever forget those beautiful, happy birds; and when at last they were out of his sight, he dived under the water, and rose again almost beside himself with excitement.
The warmth revived the poor little creature; but when the children wanted to play with him, the duckling thought they would do him some harm; so he started up in terror, fluttered into the milk-pan, and splashed the milk about the room.
Then the woman clapped her hands, which frightened him still more.
The duckling remembered the lovely birds, and felt more strangely unhappy than ever.
He now felt glad at having suffered sorrow and trouble, because it enabled him to enjoy so much better all the pleasure and happiness around him; for the great swans swam round the new-comer, and stroked his neck with their beaks, as a welcome.
"See," cried the youngest, "there is a new one;" and the rest were delighted, and ran to their father and mother, dancing and clapping their hands, and shouting joyously, "There is another swan come; a new one has arrived."
Then he rustled his feathers, curved his slender neck, and cried joyfully, from the depths of his heart, "I never dreamed of such happiness as this, while I was an ugly duckling."
At last the prince had his own statue erected on the public places and fixed on the royal palaces; nay, he even wished it to be placed in the churches, on the altars, but in this the priests opposed him, saying: "Prince, you are mighty indeed, but God's power is much greater than yours; we dare not obey your orders."
They buzzed round the prince and stung his face and hands; angrily he drew his sword and brandished it, but he only touched the air and did not hit the gnats.
Mad with pain, he tore off the coverings and his clothes too, flinging them far away, and danced about before the eyes of his ferocious soldiers, who now mocked at him, the mad prince, who wished to make war with God, and was overcome by a single little gnat.
